Israel expands offensive with new wave of coordinated strikes in Iran and Lebanon | Live Updates from Fox News Digital

--

67Posts

Sort by

NewestOldest

incoming update…

Coverage for this event has ended.

March 2

Pinned

## Smoke seen rising near US Embassy in Kuwait amid expanded regional conflict with Iran

Smoke was seen rising in the vicinity of the U.S. Embassy compound in Kuwait after Iran and Iranian-backed militias targeted Israel and Arab states with missile attacks.

This comes after a joint U.S.-Israeli strikes against Iran over the weekend that killed the Islamic Republic’s Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei.

The U.S. and Israel struck targets in Iran as the war expanded on Monday.

Fire and smoke rose from the vicinity of the embassy compound in Kuwait City and an alarm was heard after the Iranian attack, which came shortly after the U.S. issued a warning to Americans in the area to take cover and for others to stay away.

There were no immediate reports on damage or casualties.

This came amid reports of several U.S. warplanes crashing in Kuwait, according to the country's defense ministry. All the pilots were safely bailed out. The ministry did not say what caused the crashes, but they happened during an intense period of Iranian fire toward Kuwait.

The pilots had been transported to a hospital in stable condition.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

March 2

## Coverage continues at March 2 live blog

Coverage for Monday, March 2 is continuing at a new live blog. Thank you for continuing to follow Fox News' coverage of the war with Iran.

March 2

## Iran's foreign minister says Tehran 'has always been open to diplomacy'

Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araqchi said on Sunday that Tehran "has always been open to diplomacy" after joint U.S.-Israeli strikes against Iran that killed the Islamic Republic’s Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei.

"Iran has always been open to diplomacy, and I think we have a very good record of that," Araqchi said on Sunday, according to Reuters. "Contrary to Americans, their record is bad and very negative."

"This is the second time that we negotiated with the Americans, and they decided to attack us right in the middle of negotiation," he continued.

Araqchi added that "what we are doing is, in fact, an act of self-defense and retaliation to the American aggression against us."

"We are not attacking our brothers in the Persian Gulf," he said. "We are not attacking our neighbors. But we are attacking American targets. And this is obvious. The United States military, is targeting us, and we have no way but to defend ourselves."

March 2

## At least 31 people killed in Lebanon after Israeli airstrikes, officials say

Israeli airstrikes killed at least 31 people in Lebanon after the terror group Hezbollah attacked the Jewish State, Lebanon's Health Ministry announced on Monday.

The Health Ministry said that 149 people were also wounded in the strikes. About two-thirds of the people killed were in southern Lebanon.

The attack from Hezbollah and Israel’s retaliatory strikes expanded the conflict in region following joint U.S.-Israeli strikes against Iran that killed the Islamic Republic’s Supreme Leader.

"We have launched an offensive campaign against Hezbollah," said Israel Defense Force Chief of the General Staff LTG Eyal Zamir.

"We are not only operating defensively — we are now going on the offensive as well," he added. "We must prepare for many prolonged days of combat ahead. This requires strong defensive readiness and sustained offensive readiness, operating in continuous waves while constantly utilizing opportunities."

March 2

## CENTCOM releases photos of USS Ford launching aircraft from Eastern Mediterranean Sea

The U.S. Central Command said on Sunday that the USS Gerald R. Ford is "in the fight" against Iran, launching aircraft from the Eastern Mediterranean Sea.

CENTCOM posted images of aircraft preparing to take off from the aircraft carrier after the U.S. and Israel attacked Iran over the weekend as part of Operation Epic Fury.

"USS Gerald R. Ford (CVN 78), the world’s largest aircraft carrier, is in the fight with U.S. forces supporting Operation Epic Fury – launching aircraft from the Eastern Mediterranean Sea," CENTCOM wrote on X.

March 2

## Iran security chief says country 'will not negotiate' with US, accuses Trump of being 'Israel First'

Iran's Secretary of the Supreme National Security Council Ali Larijani on Sunday accused U.S. President Donald Trump of turning his "America First" slogan into "Israel First" and affirmed that Tehran will not negotiate with the U.S. government.

"Trump plunged the region into chaos with his 'delusional fantasies' and now fears more American troop casualties. With his delusional actions, he turned his self-made 'America First' slogan into 'Israel First' and sacrificed American soldiers for Israel's power-hungry ambitions," Larijani wrote on X after the U.S. and Israel attacked Iran over the weekend, triggering a wider conflict in the Middle East.

"And with new fabrications, it is once again imposing the cost of assassinating its own character on American soldiers and families," he continued. "Today, the Iranian nation is defending itself. The armed forces of Iran did not initiate the aggression."

He also wrote in another post that Iran "will not negotiate with the United States."

Earlier on Sunday, Larijani said Tehran does not want to attack other countries in the Middle East but that it must respond when U.S. military bases located in the region are used to attack Iran.

"To the countries of the region: We are not seeking to attack you. But when the bases located in your country are used against us, and when the United States carries out operations in the region relying on these forces, then we will target those bases. For these bases are not part of the land of those countries; rather, they are American soil," he wrote Sunday morning.

March 2

## Oil prices surge after strikes kill Iran’s supreme leader, tankers hit near Strait of Hormuz

Oil prices surged late Sunday as fears mounted that the escalating Iran conflict could drag on for weeks, rattling global energy markets.

Global benchmark Brent crude briefly jumped to $82.37 a barrel — its highest level since January 2025 — in the first wave of trading following U.S. and Israeli strikes on Iran that killed Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei, according to Reuters.

By 7:54 p.m. ET, Brent had pulled back slightly but was still up more than 7% at $78.24 a barrel.

U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude also surged nearly 7%, climbing to $71.68 after briefly hitting $75.33 — its highest since June of last year.

Analysts at Citi warned that prices could climb further if the conflict persists, projecting Brent could trade between $80 and $90 a barrel in the coming days.

This is an excerpt from an article by FOX Business' Sophia Compton

March 2

## Austin shooting suspect wore Iranian flag shirt during attack, sources say

Authorities said they found an Iranian flag and photos of regime leaders in the apartment of the gunman in the shooting outside a bar in Austin, Texas, on Sunday morning.

The flag and the images were discovered during a search of the suspect's home, according to CBS News, after the shooting early Sunday morning that left three people dead and 14 wounded.

The shooter was also wearing a sweatshirt that read "Property of Allah" and an undershirt featuring an Iranian flag when he carried out the attack, according to law enforcement sources.

The suspect, identified as Ndiaga Diagne, was a 53-year-old naturalized U.S. citizen who was born in Senegal and lived in Pflugerville, Texas, multiple federal law enforcement sources told Fox News.

Diagne first entered the U.S. in 2000 on a B-2 tourist visa before becoming a lawful permanent resident six years later after marrying a U.S. citizen. He became a naturalized U.S. citizen in 2013.

His criminal history includes being arrested in Texas in 2022 for collision with vehicle damage.

March 2

## State Dept says highest priority is 'security of Americans' amid travel advisories for Middle East

The State Department on Sunday said its highest priority is the "safety and security of Americans everywhere," as it provided travel advisories for more than a dozen countries in the Middle East amid the conflict in the region sparked by U.S. and Israeli attacks on Iran.

"The Trump Administration has no higher priority than the safety and security of Americans everywhere," Assistant Secretary for Consular Affairs Mora Namdar said on X.

The department issued a "Level 4: Do Not Travel for Any Reason" alert for Iran, Iraq and Lebanon.

Americans in Israel, Bahrain, Kuwait, Pakistan and Qatar were urged to reconsider travel as part of the travel guidance.

The department also encouraged Americans in Egypt, Jordan, Oman, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates to exercise increased caution.

March 2

## Israel issues urgent evacuation order to villages in southern Lebanon

An Israeli military spokesperson issued an urgent evacuation warning to residents of dozens of villages across southern Lebanon, urging civilians to move at least 1,000 meters away from areas where the Israel Defense Forces say Hezbollah is operating ahead of expected strikes.

Lt. Col. Ella Waweya directed the warning at residents in dozens of villages across southern Lebanon and the Western Bekaa, including Sarafand, Al-Ma’roub, Saida and areas near Beaufort Castle.

“Hezbollah activities are forcing the Defense Army to act against it; the Israeli Defense Forces do not wish to harm you,” the statement posted to X read. “For your safety, you must immediately evacuate your homes and move away from the villages by at least 1,000 meters to open areas.

“Anyone present near Hezbollah elements, facilities, and combat means endangers their life,” she added. “Keep yourselves and your loved ones safe.”

March 2

## US strikes Iranian aircraft, drone hangar as campaign expands

U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM) posted a new video showing U.S. forces targeting and destroying Iranian threats, including an airplane and a hangar containing drones.

“U.S. forces are taking bold action to eliminate imminent threats posed by the Iranian regime,” CENTCOM said on X. “Strikes continue.”

The footage comes as U.S. forces expand operations targeting Iran’s military infrastructure, including ballistic missile systems and drone capabilities that officials say pose an imminent threat to American forces and regional allies.

March 2

## Gang of Eight to receive urgent Iran briefing Tuesday

Administration officials are expected to brief the bipartisan “Gang of Eight” – the top Democratic and Republican leaders in Congress and the chairs and ranking members of the intelligence committees – on developments involving Iran during an urgent closed-door session Tuesday afternoon, Fox News has confirmed.

The meeting comes as broader classified briefings are scheduled the same day, when administration officials are set to update the full Senate at 3:30 p.m., followed by a House briefing at 5 p.m.

Speaker Mike Johnson announced Sunday that the Trump administration would brief lawmakers this week on the war in Iran, revealing the plans during a House GOP conference call, Fox News Digital has learned.

Secretary of State Marco Rubio, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth, CIA Director John Ratcliffe, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Charles Q. Brown Jr. and Gen. Dan Caine are expected to participate in the congressional briefings.

March 2

## After 47 years, Iran’s regime shows signs of cracking under pressure

For the first time in nearly five decades, the Iranian regime’s grip on power appears to be cracking, and the Iranian people – long suppressed by what critics call a brutal Islamist system – are seizing what some see as a historic opening to demand freedom and regime change.

Iranian-American communications strategist Sarah Raviani said the moment marks a turning point.

“I think this is the first time that we have seen the illusion of permanence crack within the regime for the first time in 47 years,” she said, adding that Iranians have been waiting for “that crack in the system” after decades of repression.

Raviani pointed to past uprisings, including demonstrations in January, when young protesters faced live fire in the streets.

“You had teenagers that were facing live fire and still decided to stand up … shouting for their freedom and for regime change in Iran,” she said, describing a population that has grown increasingly unapologetic in its demands.

She also said there is little daylight between Iranians inside the country and the diaspora abroad when it comes to calls for change. After living under what she called a “brutal system of repression” for 47 years, many Iranians have become even more resolute in demanding freedom.

Still, Raviani acknowledged the danger ahead, noting that previous uprisings have been met with deadly crackdowns.

“Every single time the Iranian people have risen up to demand their freedom, there have been brutal massacres,” she said, expressing hope that one day she will be able to show her children “a free and prosperous Iran.”

March 2

## US strikes on Iran could spark retaliation from cyberattacks, sleeper cells, former DHS chief warns

U.S. military operations against Iran could trigger retaliatory threats inside the homeland, including cyberattacks, sleeper cells and radicalized lone actors sympathetic to Tehran, according to a former senior homeland security official.

Former Acting DHS Secretary Chad Wolf told Fox News’ “The Big Weekend Show” on Sunday that when the United States conducts offensive operations overseas, officials must anticipate possible blowback at home.

“Any time that there are offensive operations by the United States government overseas, you have to anticipate that somehow some way that's going to find its way back to the homeland, or at least you need to prepare for that,” Wolf said.

Wolf said the Department of Homeland Security has previously responded to similar scenarios by raising its protective posture in areas such as cybersecurity, border security and aviation.

Wolf said the most concerning threat vectors include potential Iranian cyberattacks and activity by sleeper cells or lone individuals inside the U.S. who may be sympathetic to Tehran’s cause and could carry out violence against everyday Americans.

Acknowledging the difficulty in preemptively stopping such threats, Wolf said intelligence and law enforcement cooperation remains critical.

Wolf said these types of attacks are especially hard to stop because lone actors often leave little to no trail, even as Joint Terrorism Task Forces nationwide work to identify emerging threats and prevent violence.

He also stressed the importance of fully funding DHS, saying that gaps in pay and resources undercut morale and readiness.

“You wouldn’t want the Department of War operating without full funding, and you don’t want the Department of Homeland Security operating without full funding,” he said, noting the role of aviation screeners, the Coast Guard and cybersecurity teams in protecting the homeland.

March 2

## Suspected drone strike targets Britain's RAF Akrotiri base in Cyprus

British forces responded to a suspected drone strike at RAF Akrotiri in Cyprus around midnight local time, the Ministry of Defense said, adding that the base activated its highest level of force protection and that no casualties were reported.

“Our Armed Forces are responding to a suspected drone strike at RAF Akrotiri in Cyprus at midnight local time,” a Ministry of Defense spokesperson said. “Our force protection in the region is at the highest level and the base has responded to defend our people.”

The spokesperson described the situation as ongoing and said additional details would be released as they become available.

The Defense Ministry said it regularly reviews security at its overseas bases, including the Sovereign Base Areas in Cyprus, and recently deployed additional defensive capabilities – including radar systems, counter-drone systems, F-35 jets and ground-based air defense – to support regional stability and counter airborne threats.

March 2

## Israel bombs Hezbollah positions after cross-border attack

Israel launched airstrikes across Lebanon targeting Hezbollah positions after the Iran-backed militant group fired projectiles into Israeli territory, opening what the Israel Defense Forces described as a new front in the expanding regional conflict.

The strikes came in response to what the IDF said was Hezbollah fire toward Israel, marking the first such attack since 2024. In retaliation, Israeli forces began hitting Hezbollah targets, which the military said are acting on behalf of the Iranian regime.

“The IDF will operate against Hezbollah’s decision to join the campaign, and will not enable the organization to constitute a threat to the State of Israel and harm the civilians of northern Israel,” the IDF said. “The Hezbollah terrorist organization brings ruin to the State of Lebanon, and the IDF will forcefully respond to such actions.”

The military added that troops had prepared for this scenario under Operation Roaring Lion and are ready for an “all-fronts” conflict against any threat to Israel.

March 2

## US, Gulf nations call Iran attacks ‘dangerous escalation’

The U.S. and several Gulf allies issued a joint statement condemning what they described as Iran’s “indiscriminate and reckless” missile and drone attacks across the region, calling the strikes a dangerous escalation and reaffirming their collective right to self-defense.

The statement – issued by the governments of the United States, Bahrain, Jordan, Kuwait, Qatar, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates – signaled a unified front against Tehran and underscored deepening regional coordination in response to Iran’s cross-border missile and drone attacks.

“The United States, Bahrain, Jordan, Kuwait, Qatar, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates strongly condemn the Islamic Republic of Iran’s indiscriminate and reckless missile and drone attacks against sovereign territories across the region,” the statement read. “These unjustified strikes targeted sovereign territory, endangered civilian populations and damaged civilian infrastructure.”

“The Islamic Republic’s actions represent a dangerous escalation that violates the sovereignty of multiple states and threatens regional stability,” it continued. “The targeting of civilians and of countries not engaged in hostilities is reckless and destabilizing behavior.”

“We stand united in defense of our citizens, sovereignty and territory, and reaffirm our right to self-defense in the face of these attacks,” the statement added. “We remain committed to regional security and commend the effective air and missile defense cooperation that has prevented far greater loss of life and destruction.”

March 2

## Israel unleashes new wave of strikes in heart of Tehran

The Israel Defense Forces (IDF) said the Israeli Air Force has launched a new wave of strikes against Iranian regime targets in the heart of Tehran.

“The IDF continues to carry out large-scale strikes against targets of the Iranian terror regime across Tehran,” the military said in a statement.

In an initial report, the IDF said the operation was guided by military intelligence and marked an additional phase of attacks inside the Iranian capital.

March 1

## Family of missing ex-FBI agent says Khamenei death won’t erase Iran’s guilt

The family of retired FBI Special Agent Robert Levinson said the death of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei does not erase Iran’s responsibility for their father’s kidnapping and presumed death, renewing their call for accountability nearly two decades after he disappeared in Iran.

Levinson was working as a private investigator when he vanished in 2007 after traveling to Iran’s Kish Island. He had reportedly taken part in an unauthorized CIA mission and was presumed dead in 2020.

“For nearly 19 years, Iran has lied, obstructed, and refused to answer for the kidnapping, detention, and death of our father, Robert Levinson,” the family said. They said he was taken by Iranian officials in 2007, held for years without basic human rights, denied contact with his family and never returned home.

The family directly blamed Iran’s leadership, saying Khamenei “led the regime responsible for these crimes.” While noting that his death marks “a significant moment,” they stressed that it “does not erase what Iran did to our father, and it does not end our fight for accountability.”

They also expressed gratitude to President Donald Trump and Secretary of State Marco Rubio for confronting Tehran, saying they were “grateful” for efforts to recognize and address Iran’s long-standing practice of wrongful detention.

“Now Iran must do what it has refused to do for nearly two decades,” the family said, calling on the regime to provide full accountability, return Levinson’s remains and disclose the truth about his kidnapping, imprisonment and death. “Our family will not stop demanding the truth. And we will not stop demanding justice.”

March 1

## Strike followed months of tracking Iran’s supreme leader

U.S. and Israeli intelligence agencies had tracked Iran’s supreme leader for months before launching a strike timed to a high-level meeting with dozens of top commanders, a move officials say was executed after surveillance revealed a rare gathering of senior regime figures.

Fox News senior correspondent Benjamin Hall reported that U.S. intelligence had been tracking the Ayatollah’s movements for months and moved quickly when surveillance revealed he was meeting with as many as 40 senior Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) commanders.

“What an incredible way to start this sort of attack on Iran was to hit the Ayatollah and perhaps take out up to 40 of his colleagues, IRGC commanders across the board,” Hall said. “We're hearing that perhaps the U.S. weren't planning on starting so soon, but when they found out the Ayatollah was moving and meeting these people, they decided to act.

“For months, the CIA had been following the Ayatollah, they'd been mapping out how he moves,” Hall continued. “They had a really good understanding of how he communicated with people around him.

“You look back to the conflict in June last year, we looked at how Mossad had been watching how they were in communication, but also with tracking the bodyguards' phones, because many of the leaders of Iran said no more cell phones, but their bodyguard continued to track, travel with cell phones,” he added. “So they were monitoring signal intelligence. They were monitoring human intelligence. And that's why on Saturday morning when the Ayatollah met with up to 40 of these leaders, they were ready and they acted quickly.”

March 1

## Hormuz erupts: Attacks, GPS jamming, Houthi threats rock Strait amid US-Israeli strikes

The Strait of Hormuz region became a flashpoint Sunday after U.S.-Israeli strikes on Iran under Operation Epic Fury triggered electronic warfare activity and multiple "attacks" on vessels along one of the world’s most critical energy waterways, according to reports.

The sudden escalation followed a Feb. 28 warning from U.S. maritime authorities urging commercial vessels to avoid strategic waterways if possible, including the Persian Gulf, Gulf of Oman and Arabian Sea, citing heightened security risks.

"It is recommended that vessels keep clear of this area if possible," the advisory warned.

"The Persian Gulf, Strait of Hormuz and adjacent waters are the most dangerous place right now for commercial shipping," Jakob P. Larsen, head of maritime security at BIMCO, told Fox News Digital.

Find out what else maritime authorities had to say about threats to vessels.

This is an excerpt from a story by Fox News Digital’s Emma Bussey.

March 1

## Trump pledges to avenge fallen US service members as tensions with Iran intensify

President Donald Trump vowed Sunday to avenge the deaths of three U.S. service members killed in action as the conflict involving Iran deepens across the Middle East.

"As one nation, we grieve for the true American patriots who have made the ultimate sacrifice for our nation," Trump said in a video statement posted on Truth Social.

"Even as we continue the righteous mission for which they gave their lives, we pray for the full recovery of the wounded and send our immense love and eternal gratitude to the families of the fallen."

The president struck a somber note, warning that "sadly, there will likely be more before it ends."

Find out what else Trump said about the conflict involving Iran.

This is an excerpt from a story by Fox News Digital’s Amanda Macias.

March 1

## UK approves US use of British bases for Iran missile strikes

British Prime Minister Keir Starmer said the U.K. will allow the U.S. to use British bases for what he described as a “specific and limited defensive” effort to destroy Iranian missiles at their source, despite London not participating in the initial strikes on Iran.

Starmer addressed British citizens on Sunday, letting them know of the latest development in the war on Iran.

“Yesterday I spoke to you about the situation in the Gulf and explained that the United Kingdom was not involved in the strikes on Iran. That remains the case,” he said. “Our decision that the UK would not be involved with the strikes in Iran was deliberate…the best way forward for the region and for the world is a negotiated settlement, one in which Iran intends to give up any aspirations to develop a nuclear weapon.

“Our partners in the Gulf have asked us to do more to defend them, and it is my duty to protect British lives,” Starmer continued. “But the only way to stop the threat is to destroy the missiles at source in their storage depots or the launchers which are used to fire the missiles.

“The United States has requested permission to use British bases for that specific and limited defensive,” he continued. “We have taken the decision to accept this request, to prevent Iran firing missiles across the region, killing innocent civilians, putting British lives at risk, and hitting countries that have not been involved.”

March 1

## Security tightened at US Capitol following Iran strikes

Enhanced security measures will be implemented at the U.S. Capitol beginning Sunday night and continuing into Monday amid concerns about potential terrorism following U.S. strikes on Iran, though officials say there is no specific or credible threat.

Security posture is being heightened as lawmakers return to session. The House is out Monday, while the Senate is scheduled to convene Monday afternoon.

No additional fencing is planned at this time, despite questions about whether officials would install either a large perimeter fence – similar to those used for the State of the Union or after Jan. 6 – or smaller “bike rack” barriers around the complex.

Fox News’ Chad Pergram contributed to this report.

March 1

## US military shares footage of strikes on Iranian threats

U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM) released a new video on X showing American military forces destroying ballistic missiles and other threats posed by Iran.

“The Iranian regime's reckless use and proliferation of ballistic missiles have been a dangerous threat for decades,” CENTCOM wrote. “Now, at the President's direction, U.S. forces are eliminating the threat.”

The footage comes as part of a broader U.S. military campaign targeting Iran’s missile systems, air defenses and other strategic assets, amid escalating tensions across the region.

The strikes follow Iranian attacks on U.S. forces and allies, as Washington works alongside regional partners to degrade Tehran’s ability to launch missiles and drones and to deter further aggression.

March 1

## GOP Rep Mast says US military objective in Iran is to ‘eliminate’ threat to Americans

Rep. Brian Mast, R-Fla., chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, told Fox News Digital in an interview the United States now has a clear and defined military objective in Iran: dismantle the regime’s ability to strike Americans.

He said the U.S. mission is "to literally eliminate every single piece of military hardware that exists in Iran that can reach out and touch an American somewhere throughout the Middle East."

"That is what we are conducting right now so that we do not get hit with something, a surface-to-surface missile or a surface-to-air missile or anything else, certainly with a nuclear tip, but with any other tip as well."

Mast paid tribute to the three Americans killed in the operation. "These service members understood the hazards of their profession. They went out there, conducted their duty to defend the United States of America, and I could not be more proud than to thank them for their service, and I’m proud to be their brother in arms."

Find out what else Mast had to say about the military objective in Iran.

This is an excerpt from a story by Fox News Digital’s Efrat Lachter.

March 1

## Pentagon confirms B-2 bombers sent amid Iran escalation

The Pentagon confirmed Sunday that the United States has deployed B-2 stealth bombers armed with 2,000-pound bombs as part of its expanding military campaign against Iran, signaling a significant escalation in airpower and strike capability.

Fox News correspondent Mark Meredith reported that the same stealth aircraft were used last summer when President Donald Trump targeted Iran’s nuclear facilities, underscoring the strategic weight behind their deployment.

Military experts told Fox News the current target list is extensive but focused on degrading key Iranian capabilities.

Fox News senior strategic analyst and retired Gen. Jack Keane said earlier that the objective is to eliminate Iran’s ability to conduct offensive operations.

“We’re stopping the Iranians from having any capability that resembles offensive operation. We’re taking them off the board,” Keane said, adding that senior Iranian leadership could also be impacted.

Meanwhile, attention remains fixed on the Persian Gulf and the Strait of Hormuz, where maritime traffic has reportedly dropped sharply amid heightened tensions.

President Trump said the U.S. has sunk multiple Iranian naval vessels and destroyed Iran’s naval headquarters, while deploying roughly 13,000 American service members to the region – the largest buildup seen there in decades.

March 1

## Gulf states warn Iran of possible military response

The Gulf Cooperation Council warned Iran it will take “all necessary measures” – including the option of responding militarily – after holding an emergency meeting over what it called Tehran’s retaliatory and indiscriminate attacks against member states.

The group released a statement in Arabic warning that the six member nations will defend their security “including the option of responding to the aggression.”

The warning signals that Saudi Arabia, the UAE and other Gulf states are prepared to consider offensive military action against Iran to protect their security and stability.

“The Ministerial Council affirmed that, in light of this unjustified Iranian aggression against the Council states, they will take all necessary measures to defend their security and stability and protect their territories, citizens and residents, including the option of responding to the aggression,” a translated version of the statement read.

Fox News’ Bryan Llenas contributed to this report.

March 1

## FBI probes Austin shooting as terrorism; gunman wore ‘property of Allah’ sweatshirt

The FBI said Sunday that a mass shootin g in downtown Austin, Texas, that left three people dead and 14 others wounded is being investigated as “potentially an act of terrorism,” as law enforcement sources told Fox News the suspect was wearing a hoodie that read “property of Allah” and an undershirt featuring an Iranian flag.

The suspect was identified by multiple federal law enforcement sources as Ndiaga Diagne, a 53-year-old naturalized U.S. citizen born in Senegal who lived in Pflugerville, Texas. Authorities said he opened fire early Sunday during a rampage in a busy entertainment district.

Fox News has obtained a photo of the alleged gunman armed with a rifle and wearing the hoodie bearing the phrase “property of Allah.” Separate federal sources told Fox News that Diagne was naturalized in 2013 during the Obama administration.

The investigation remains ongoing as authorities work to determine a motive and whether the attack was ideologically driven.

March 1

## France, Germany, UK condemn Iran strikes, warn of defense action

Leaders of France, Germany and the U.K. condemned what they described as Iran’s “indiscriminate and disproportionate” missile attacks across the region, warning they are prepared to take defensive action alongside the United States and regional allies to counter the threat.

In a statement, the European leaders said they were “appalled” by the missile attacks in the region, including against those who were not involved in the initial military actions by the U.S. and Israel.

“Iran’s reckless attacks have targeted our close allies and are threatening our service personnel and our civilians across the region,” the statement read. “We call on Iran to stop these reckless attacks immediately.

“We will take steps to defend our interests and those of our allies in the region, potentially through enabling necessary and proportionate defensive action to destroy Iran’s capability to fire missiles and drones at their source,” the statement continued. “We have agreed to work together with the US and allies in the region on this matter.”

March 1

## Trump administration to brief Congress on Iran conflict

Speaker Mike Johnson announced Sunday that the Trump administration will brief members of Congress this week on the war in Iran.

Johnson revealed the plans during a House GOP conference call, Fox News Digital has learned.

The Senate briefing is scheduled for 3:30 p.m. on Tuesday and will be followed by a House briefing at 5 p.m.

Secretary of State Marco Rubio, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth, CIA Director John Ratcliffe, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Charles Q. Brown Jr. and Gen. Dan Caine are expected to participate.

Fox News Digital's Elizabeth Elkind contributed to this report.

March 1

## IDF chief says Israel opened operation with ‘surprise, great force’

Israel’s Chief of the General Staff Lt. Gen. Eyal Zamir said the military concluded the first day of its operation with surprise and significant achievements, warning that “many more days of combat lie ahead.”

“We are less than 48 hours into the operation, and many more days of combat lie ahead,” Zamir said during a situational assessment with the General Staff Forum on Sunday. “We are concluding the first day of the operation — we opened with surprise, with great force, and with highly significant achievements that have influenced the development of the operation and its outcome.

“Already now, we can say that what we achieved at the outset will impact our end state,” he added, stressing that the IDF is “sparing no effort” to accelerate its gains while working to reduce threats to Israel’s home front.

Zamir also emphasized close cooperation with Washington, saying “coordination with the U.S. military is closer than ever,” and warned that Israel is monitoring additional arenas and “will act powerfully against anyone who attempts to harm Israel.”

March 1

## Rocket sirens send Jerusalem residents, US Embassy into shelters

Rocket sirens blared across Jerusalem on Sunday as incoming fire targeted central Israel, sending more than a million residents – including U.S. Embassy staff and Ambassador Mike Huckabee – scrambling into bomb shelters.

Fox News correspondent Trey Yingst reported that rocket sirens were sounding in central Israel as incoming fire targeted Jerusalem, forcing residents across the city into shelters.

“Sirens were sounding in central Israel in Jerusalem,” he said, noting that he was about a 45-minute drive away from the city. “That is where that incoming fire is happening right now. Jerusalem is a city of more than a million people, and the entire population, at this moment, including the U.S. Embassy, the ambassador, Mike Huckabee, are in shelters at the moment.”

March 1

## US women's basketball player speaks out on being trapped in Israel during Iranian counterstrike

Destiny Littleton was supposed to be on a flight from Israel back to the US on Tuesday. That plan is now up in smoke, as she navigates bomb shelters in Jerusalem during Iran's counterstrike. She has no idea when she'll be home.

The former NCAA and Team USA women's basketball player moved to Israel in November to play for Hapoel Jerusalem in the country's top women's basketball division. She called it an "amazing" experience, before Saturday. But now, she said she would not come to Israel if she could do it all over again.

"It's scary. And it's hard not to take it to the ‘what ifs.’ You really can't. We're going to have to pray and hope everything will be okay and that we can leave safely," Littleton told Fox News Digital.

Find out what else Littleton said about being trapped in Israel.

This is an excerpt from a story by Fox News Digital’s Jackson Thompson.

Breaking NewsMarch 1

## Zelenskyy ties Iran turmoil to Russia, says justice will come

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Kyiv is closely monitoring developments in Iran, calling for global resolve as tensions surrounding the Iranian regime intensify.

In a post on X, Zelenskyy said Ukrainian intelligence and diplomatic officials are coordinating with international partners and argued that the Iranian regime – which he accused of killing its own citizens and supplying Russia with Shahed drones – has brought the current crisis upon itself.

“We are now closely monitoring every change in the situation around Iran,” Zelenskyy wrote. “It is important that this chance for change for Iran be used properly.”

“The Iranian people have long effectively been alone against violence – against the Iranian regime,” he continued. “This regime, which has killed tens of thousands of its own citizens just in recent months, which has always fueled and organized wars in the region, which provided Russia with ‘shaheds’ and the technology for their production – this regime has brought this attitude upon itself.”

Zelenskyy said it is important that there be a clear position in support of human life, noting that determination from America and others around the world must “truly work.”

“I thank everyone who is trying to prevent the war from expanding and who is defending against strikes from Iran,” he said. “And I also thank everyone who tells Russia – now, based on the experience of the Iranian regime – that justice does come.”

March 1

## Israeli Air Force strikes Iran ballistic missile systems, IDF says

The Israeli Air Force has carried out more than 30 strikes targeting Iran’s ballistic missile array and air defense systems as part of Operation Roaring Lion, the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) said.

According to the IDF, the strikes were aimed at degrading the Iranian regime’s missile capabilities and minimizing incoming fire toward Israel as tensions in the region continue to escalate.

The IDF said it will continue operating to remove threats and protect Israeli civilians, releasing footage it said shows the strikes against missile infrastructure and aerial defense assets.

March 1

## Trump speaks with Israel, Gulf leaders, briefed on Austin shooting

White House spokesperson Karoline Leavitt said Sunday that President Donald Trump spoke with the leaders of Israel, Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates as tensions rise in the Middle East.

Leavitt shared the update in a post on X, saying the calls were part of the administration’s ongoing diplomatic engagement with key regional allies amid the escalating situation involving Iran.

She also said the president was briefed on the shooting in Austin, Texas, where a gunman opened fire just before 2 a.m. at Buford’s Backyard Beer Garden, killing three people and injuring 14 others.

March 1

## Gulf ministers hold emergency session after U.S.-Israel strikes on Iran

Foreign ministers from the Gulf Cooperation Council convened an extraordinary session Sunday following joint U.S. and Israeli strikes on Iran, with the participation of Their Highnesses, Excellencies and the Ministers of Foreign Affairs, to address escalating Iranian aggression targeting member states.

The 50th extraordinary Ministerial Council meeting, held via video conference, brought together the bloc’s top diplomats to coordinate a unified response to mounting regional security threats and assess the fallout from the widening confrontation.

The session was called amid growing concerns that Iranian military activity – including missile and drone operations – could spill further into the Gulf, prompting member states to safeguard their airspace, critical infrastructure and civilian populations.

March 1

## Trump says Iran wants to talk but who will lead after Khamenei?

As the White House confirmed on Sunday, the Islamic Republic of Iran's leadership has contacted the U.S. asking for talks. The list of potential successors to replace Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who was killed on Saturday by an Israeli airstrike, includes his son and former advisers.

Since the establishment in 1979 of the Islamic Republic, led by the fiery anti-American Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, this will be only the second time that a new supreme leader has been selected.

The potential successors to Khamenei include a list of hard-line anti-Western extremists who, like Khamenei, are set on the destruction of Israel and the continued export of the Islamic revolution.

Find out more about what the possible leadership of Iran could look like.

This is an excerpt from a story by Fox News Digital’s Benjamin Weinthal.

March 1

## Iranian drone shot down by British Typhoon over Qatar, UK says

The U.K. Ministry of Defense said Sunday that a Royal Air Force Typhoon operating out of Qatar shot down an Iranian drone flying toward the country, marking the first reported involvement of British warplanes in the conflict with Iran.

“The Typhoon jet was conducting a defensive air patrol and used an air-to-air missile to shoot down the drone, ensuring the security of Qatar’s airspace and British interests in the region,” the Ministry of Defense said in a post on X. “Our Armed Forces are playing a vital role to protect our people, our interests and our Allies.”

The U.K. is operating in defense of allies and is not conducting offensive strikes targeting Iran.

Britain maintains Typhoons in the Middle East for defensive operations, including at RAF Akrotiri in Cyprus. Following Iranian missile activity targeting Cyprus, where the U.K. maintains a military base, British aircraft could play a greater role in similar defensive actions.

March 1

## Jeb Bush commends former rival Trump’s Iran op: ‘This is their time to take their country back’

FIRST ON FOX: A major public policy nonprofit co-led by former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush praised President Donald Trump for ordering Saturday's military strikes against Iran.

United Against a Nuclear Iran (UANI) — was formed in 2008 by Ambassador Mark Wallace, who held a United Nations-centered post in Bush's brother’s administration, and former George H.W. Bush diplomat Dennis Ross — to combat threats posed by the Islamic Republic.

The group has been on the front lines of highlighting Iran's human rights abuses and attacks on Americans and advising policymakers and the business community about dangers posed by Tehran.

The organization counsels existing and would-be commercial partners of Iran regarding the legal, financial and reputational risks of that kind of commerce.

"UANI salutes the courage and professionalism of American and Israeli service members carrying out this historic mission against the Iranian regime," Bush and Wallace told Fox News Digital Saturday.

"We applaud President Trump for his courageous decision to launch this military operation. For 47 years, the Iranian regime has unleashed terror, violence and misery — against its own people and across the region — while threatening the United States, Israel and our allies."

This is an excerpt from an Article by Fox News' Charles Creitz.

March 1

## Trump admits 'we expect casualties' in Iran attacks, argues it will be 'a great deal' despite losses

President Donald Trump that U.S. forces "expect" to take some casualties amid the joint U.S.-Israeli assault on Iran on Sunday.

Trump made the statement during an interview with NBC News, addressing the three U.S. servicemembers who were confirmed to be killed in action amid Operation Epic Fury.

“We expect casualties with something like this. We have three, but we expect casualties — but in the end it’s going to be a great deal for the world,” Trump said.

U.S. Central Command says five more servicemembers were "seriously injured" amid Iranian retaliation.

“There are many outcomes that are good," Trump added on the operation so far. "Number one is decapitating them, getting rid of their whole group of killers and thugs. And there are many, many outcomes. We could do the short version or the longer version.”

March 1

## US women's basketball player in Israel shares panic in footage of Iranian counterattack on Jerusalem

Former NCAA and Team USA women's basketball player Destiny Littleton shared footage Saturday of her experience fleeing Iranian counterstrikes in Israel.

Her documentation concluded with a panicked scene of her and other civilians shouting in fear as drones flew overhead. Littleton, who won a national championship at South Carolina under coach Dawn Staley in 2022, and a gold medal for the U.S. in the 2017 FIBA 3x3 U18 World Cup, currently plays for Hapoel Jerusalem in Israel’s top division.

She posted footage on her Instagram Saturday updating followers as she fled to a local bomb shelter when Iranian counterattacks began to strike Israel.

After the U.S. and Israel carried out a round of military strikes on Iran, the country responded with ballistic missiles and drones targeting cities including Tel Aviv, Haifa and Jerusalem.

Littleton was nearly caught in the crossfire.

Sirens could be heard in her video as she fled the shelter, and at one point she even aimed her camera at what appeared to be missiles flying through the air.

In one video, she struggled to find the shelter as sirens blared in the background.

"Trying to find the saferoom, but I can't find it," she said, in a panicked voice as she scrambled through an empty alleyway. "Jesus Christ, I don't think this is the right… I don't think this is the right way."

As she walked down an outdoor stone staircase, bombs exploding in the distance could be heard in the background, as she yelled, "Oh s---!"

Shortly after that, she posted a video announcing she had left the shelter and was going to a teammate's house after feeling "uncomfortable" in the shelter she had just found.

This is an excerpt from an article by Fox News' Jackson Thompson.

March 1

## Counterterror officials on high alert as Iran conflict raises US security concerns

American counterterrorism agencies are quietly monitoring suspected sleeper cells on U.S. soil in the wake of joint U.S.–Israel strikes on Iran, stepping up surveillance amid heightened fears of possible retaliation from Iran-linked operatives or sympathizers.

Federal and local law enforcement have also boosted on-the-ground security in major U.S. cities as part of a precautionary posture, even though no specific, credible threats have been publicly identified.

The move comes on the heels of a Saturday morning operation, dubbed Operation Epic Fury, that resulted in the death of Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and several senior Iranian officials in a coordinated U.S.–Israeli military campaign.

Security experts warn that the fallout could extend beyond the Middle East.

"If ever there's going to be a Hezbollah cell or a Hamas cell act in the United States in a violent way, it's now," Chris Swecker, a former assistant FBI director, told Fox News.

"Both organizations are Iranian-backed all the way. Both organizations have had a presence in the United States since the 1980s," he added.

Swecker said U.S. authorities have long been aware of domestic networks and sympathizers.

"We know that they have cells here. We also know that there are lone sympathizers, many of whom have come out in these protest groups," he added.

This is an excerpt from an article by Fox News' Amanda Macias.

March 1

## Mike Waltz turns tables on Iranian envoy at heated UN meeting

Iran’s ambassador to the United Nations, Saeid Iravani, sparred with U.S. envoy Mike Waltz at a Security Council session on Sunday, telling the American ambassador to "be polite," a remark that drew a sharp rebuke from Waltz, who accused Tehran of killing "tens of thousands" of its own citizens and imprisoning many more simply for seeking freedom from "your tyranny."

"I have one word only: I advise to the representative of the United States to be polite," Iravani said during the emergency meeting.

Moments later, Waltz responded: "Frankly, I’m not going to dignify this with another response, especially as this representative sits here in this body representing a regime that has killed tens of thousands of its own people and imprisoned many more simply for wanting freedom from your tyranny."

The exchange came during an emergency Security Council briefing as the United States, Israel and Iran entered war, with diplomats offering sharply different interpretations of the expanding military campaign and its legality under international law.

In extended remarks at the session, Waltz rejected what he described as Iran’s "ridiculous and frankly farcical assertion" that U.S. actions violated international law, arguing that the United States acted "in close coordination with the Government of Israel" and "in line with Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations," which addresses self-defense.

He also reiterated that Iran supports armed proxies across the region and has destabilized the Middle East for decades.

The clash unfolded against the backdrop of broader controversy surrounding Iran’s standing within the U.N. system, previously reported by Fox News Digital. Last mnonth Iran was elected vice-chair of the U.N. Charter Committee, a body focused on examining and strengthening the principles of the U.N.’s founding document — a move that drew criticism from Israeli and Western officials.

This is an excerpt from an article by Efrat Lachter.

March 1

## Fetterman praises Trump's Iran operation as 'historic' moment for America amid party divisions

Sen. John Fetterman, D-Pa., broke with his party by praising President Donald Trump for Operation Epic Fury on Saturday — calling the elimination of Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei a "historic" moment that should be celebrated by Americans across party lines.

Fetterman called Khamenei "one of the most evil people that ever lived" on "Hannity," echoing Trump's Truth Social post announcing Khamenei's death.

"And I can't imagine why Democrat, Republican, everyone can't celebrate that [Khamenei's death], because tens of millions of people in Iran are absolutely celebrating that thing," he said.

"And now you could have real peace in that region and a way forward, perhaps being freed from this toxic, awful regime," he added.

Operation Epic Fury, described by officials as a series of coordinated strikes on Iran by the U.S. and Israel early Saturday morning, reportedly targeted what they called high-value Iranian sites, including Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) command-and-control facilities, naval assets and underground locations believed to be tied to Iran’s nuclear program.

Iranian air defense weapons, missile and drone launch sites and military airfields were also targeted, according to officials.

Israeli forces targeted sites linked to Khamenei, a senior Israeli official confirmed to Fox News.

This is an excerpt from an article by Fox News' Max Bacall.

March 1

## Trump says Iran's 'new potential leadership' has contacted US, asked to talk: official

President Donald Trump says potential new leadership in Iran has contacted the U.S. and said they want to speak with the president, a senior White House official told Fox News on Sunday.

Trump indicated that he does plan to talk with replacement Iranian leadership soon, but the White House says Operation Epic Fury is continuing nonetheless.

"President Trump said new potential leadership in Iran has indicated they want to talk and eventually he will talk. For now, Operation Epic Fury continues unabated," the official said.

Fox News' Trey Yingst contributed to this report.

March 1

## Iranian foreign minister says attacks on Oman states 'not our choice,' blames 'isolated' military

Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi says the Iranian attacks on Middle Eastern states around the Gulf of Oman were not ordered by the nation's leadership.

Araghchi said many of Iran's military units are "somewhat isolated" and are operating off of prior instructions.

"We have already told our armed forces to be careful about the targets they choose," Araghchi said in a statement broadcast on Al Jazeera. "Our military units are now, in fact, independent and somewhat isolated, and they are acting based on general instructions given to them in advance."

The start statement comes after a joint attack by U.S. and Israeli forces eliminated Iranian Supreme Leader Ali

March 1

## Dems' potential 2028 hopefuls come out against US strikes on Iran

Some of the top rumored Democratic potential candidates for president in 2028 are showing a united front in opposing U.S. strikes on Iran, with several high-profile figures accusing President Donald Trump of launching an unnecessary and unconstitutional war.

Former Vice President Kamala Harris said Trump was "dragging the United States into a war the American people do not want."

"Let me be clear: I am opposed to a regime-change war in Iran, and our troops are being put in harm’s way for the sake of Trump’s war of choice," Harris said in a statement Saturday following the joint U.S. and Israeli strikes throughout Iran.

"This is a dangerous and unnecessary gamble with American lives that also jeopardizes stability in the region and our standing in the world," she continued. "What we are witnessing is not strength. It is recklessness dressed up as resolve."

California Gov. Gavin Newsom delivered some of his sharpest criticism during a book tour stop Saturday night in San Francisco, accusing Trump of manufacturing a crisis.

"It stems from weakness masquerading as strength," Newsom said. "He lied to you. So reckless is the only way to describe this."

"He didn’t describe to the American people what the endgame is here," Newsom added. "There wasn’t one. He manufactured it."

Newsom is currently promoting his memoir, "Young Man in a Hurry," with recent and upcoming stops in South Carolina, New Hampshire and Nevada — three key early voting states in the Democratic presidential calendar.

Earlier in the day, Newsom said Iran’s "corrupt and repressive" regime must never obtain nuclear weapons and that the "leadership of Iran must go."

March 1

## Former FBI official warns of Hezbollah, Hamas sleeper cells in US amid ongoing strikes on Iran

Former Assistant FBI Director Chris Swecker warned on Sunday that the strikes in Iran had increased the risk of Hamas and Hezbollah sleeper cells acting in a "violent way" in the U.S., as both groups are backed by Tehran.

"We know that they have cells here," Swecker told Fox News' Griff Jenkins. "We also know that they are lone sympathizers, many of whom have come out in these protest groups... I guess the up side to that is that they're outing themselves."

Protests erupted in the wake of the U.S. and Israel's launch of Operation Epic Fury in Iran. Swecker said that the protest groups are a cause for concern and added that former President Joe Biden's border policies made it so that terror-linked individuals could have entered the country.

"Look, we've just come off four years of open borders, and I have said before that that was an open door for terrorists, terrorist cells and terrorist sympathizers to infiltrate," Swecker said. "Many were already here, but it's impossible that they would not infiltrate into these particular groups and sort of act as catalysts, as enablers."

Swecker explained that the protest groups present a risk, as they can give terror groups the opportunity to engage in propaganda and recruit people, including some who could "take matters into their own hands in a violent way."

March 1

## Israel says it hit Iranian fighter jets that were prepared for takeoff

The Israel Defense Forces(IDF) said on Sunday that it struck two Iranian F5 and F4 fighter jets at the Tabriz Shahid Madani International Airport that were prepared for takeoff.

"The strike was conducted to degrade the Iranian Air Force’s activities and to further expand the degradation of the regime’s aerial defense," the IDF said.

Earlier on Sunday, the IDF said it was carrying out strikes against terror infrastructure in the "heart of Tehran."

March 1

## 3 US servicemembers killed in action, 5 'seriously' wounded amid Operation Epic Fury: CENTCOM

Three U.S. servicemembers have been killed in action and five others have been "seriously' wounded amid the joint U.S.-Israel operation against Iran, U.S. Central Command announced Sunday.

CENTCOM says several other servicemembers sustained shrapnel injuries and concussions, but they are in the process of being returned to active duty.

"Major combat operations continue and our response effort is ongoing," CENTCOM wrote in a statement on X.

"The situation is fluid, so out of respect for the families, we will withhold additional information, including the identities of our fallen warriors, until 24 hours after next of kin have been notified," it added.

President Donald Trump launched Operation Epic Fury on Saturday morning, eliminating Iranian Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei as well as dozens of other senior Iranian leaders, including the head of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps.

March 1

## Pope warns escalating Iran conflict could tip Middle East into ‘irreparable abyss’

Pope Leo XIV warned Sunday that U.S.-Israel airstrikes on Iran risk plunging the Middle East into an "irreparable abyss," urging leaders to halt a dangerous spiral of violence.

Speaking at the Angelus, the pontiff expressed "deep concern" over recent developments and called on nations to choose dialogue over war.

"Stability and peace are not built with mutual threats, nor with weapons, which sow destruction, pain, and death, but only through a reasonable, authentic, and responsible dialogue," the pope said, according to Vatican News.

"Faced with the possibility of a tragedy of enormous proportions," he added, "I address to the parties involved a heartfelt appeal to assume the moral responsibility to stop the spiral of violence before it becomes an irreparable abyss!"

The pope's warning came after Israel and the U.S. launched a joint military operation against Iran on Saturday, dubbed "Operation Epic Fury." The attacks reportedly killed several senior leaders, including Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who ruled the Islamic Republic for more than three decades.

Meanwhile, Iranian airstrikes killed at least eight Israelis on Sunday as Tehran’s latest missile barrage landed miles from Jerusalem.

The pope reinforced his warning in a two-part message posted Sunday morning on X.

"I am following with deep concern what is happening in the Middle East and in Iran during this tumultuous time," he wrote.

"Stability and peace are not achieved through mutual threats, nor through the use of weapons, which sow destruction, suffering, and death, but only through reasonable, sincere and responsible dialogue."

This is an excerpt from an article by Fox News' Michael Dorgan.

March 1

## Iranian warhead fell Meters from Temple Mount: Police

An Iranian warhead fired at Israel landed just a few hundred meters from the Temple Mount, one of the holiest sites in the world for not only Judaism, but also Islam.

Israeli police said no one was injured in the strike, thanks in part due to a ban on public gatherings amid the war with Iran.

Lt. Col. Dvir Tamim, the police commander for the area, warned that the incident could have had catastrophic consequences, according to Israeli media.

“Home Front Command guidelines save lives,” Tamim said. “Yesterday we received further proof that from the enemy’s perspective, all targets are legitimate, and if that warhead had deviated by a few hundred meters, it is very possible that a very serious attack would have occurred.”

“Especially if one of the holy sites had been hit while it was full of worshippers and visitors, the results could have been devastating. We will continue to enforce the guidelines to protect the public," he added.

March 1

## Iran's ballistic missile program takes major hits, Israeli military official says

An Israeli military official on Sunday explained the damage that had been done to Iran's ability to carry out counter attacks, saying that its central explosives facility was destroyed. The site was allegedly used to produce explosive materials for ballistic missile warheads, as well as other weapons, according to the Israeli military official.

In addition to the production site, hundreds of Iranian missiles were destroyed, the military official said, adding that the production of at least 1,500 additional missiles was prevented. Approximately 200 ballistic missile launchers were also destroyed and dozens were left incapacitated.

Beyond the damage done to Iran's ballistic missiles production capabilities, the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) were also able to hit other key aspects of Tehran's weapons industries, the official said. The hits included factories that produced anti-tank systems meant for terror groups, such as Hezbollah.

The military official said that the damage to Iran's ballistic missile program, including a hit on research infrastructure, could delay the development of weapons for years.

March 1

## Israel's Herzog hails death of Khamenei as 'historical,' gives all credit to Trump

Israel President Isaac Herzog hailed the death of Iranian Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei as a "historical moment" on Sunday.

Herzog made the statement during an appearance on Fox News, giving credit to President Donald Trump for saying "enough is enough."

"This is truly an historical moment, which was seized, totally seized, by President Trump," Herzog said. "We had seen for a generation already Ali Khamenei spending billions of dollars every year simply to kill others, Christians of all denominations, Jews, Muslims who are moderate Muslims."

"There was no moderacy in his belief. Everybody else was heresy," Herzog continued. "That is why this war machine, which was built for a generation already, decades and decades, spending his people's own money, simply to create [terror]."

"That is why President Trump said, enough is enough. We've got to change the course of history," he added.

March 1

## US Embassy in Jerusalem issues security alert as Iran's retaliation continues

The U.S. Embassy in Jerusalem has directed all U.S. government employees and their family members to continue to shelter in place either in or near their residences as Iran continues to fire missiles at Israel.

Additionally, the embassy announced that due to the security situation it would be closed on March 2, and did not give an estimate on when it would be reopening. The closure includes consular sections in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv.

The embassy also said it is "not in a position at this time to evacuate or directly assist Americans in departing Israel." It noted that Ben Gurion Airport remains closed and there there are neither commercial nor charter flights operating from the airport.

On Friday, ahead of the launch of Operation Epic Fury, the embassy gave all n on-essential workers permission to leave Israel, with reports that U.S. Ambassador to Israel Mike Huckabee urged those looking to leave to do so as soon as possible.

March 1

## Iranian airstrikes kill at least 8 Israelis as missile barrage lands near Jerusalem

Iranian airstrikes killed at least eight Israelis on Sunday as Tehran's latest missile barrage landed just miles from Jerusalem.

The strikes landed in the Israeli city of Beit Shemesh. Initial reports said four people were killed when missiles landed in a residential area on Sunday, but that death toll rose to eight, according to Israel's national emergency service.

Iran's military has carried out counterattacks against Israel and U.S. bases in the Middle East after a joint U.S.-Israeli strike killed Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei on Saturday.

The strikes also killed several other top Iranian leaders, including the head of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps.

March 1

## Pompeo says Iran 'prepared' for scenario where leadership was wiped out: 'Not remotely over'

Former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo says the people of Iran are likely in confusion about who their leaders are now that Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and other "former senior leaders are all gone."

Pompeo made the statement during a Sunday morning appearance on Fox News,

"Multiple layers of leadership have vanished. They don't know who they can trust. They don't know who they can rely upon, but they knew this day might well come, and the Iranian leadership prepared for this," Pompeo said.

"They had a structure that said if the following folks are gone, here's how we will operate," he continued. "And you can see they're still launching counterstrikes, still capable of organizing. This is not remotely over."

"We don't know the name of who's in charge, but I'm confident that between the United States and Israel we still have a sense of who's calling the shots," he added.

March 1

## Rockets seen flying over Tel Aviv, as Israelis take to bomb shelters amid Iran retaliation

Fox News' Trey Yingst spoke with "Fox & Friends Weekend" as Iranian missiles flew over Tel Aviv, Israel, triggering airstrikes as Tehran's retaliation over the joint U.S.-Israel military offensive continued.

Israelis have been in and out of bomb shelters amid the ongoing retaliatory attacks from Iran, whose supreme leader was killed in an airstrike on Saturday.

Iran's launching capabilities were degraded in Operation Epic Fury, leaving Tehran unable to launch large missile barrages at civilian areas, as it did in June 2025, Yingst reported.

Also on Sunday, Israel hit an Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps command center. The facility was used to command the crackdown on protesters earlier this year, an Israeli intelligence source told Fox News exclusively. The crackdown led to the deaths of tens of thousands of Iranians.

March 1

## Putin calls the killing of Khamenei a 'cynical violation' of morality and international law

Russian President Vladimir Putin reportedly called the killing of Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei a "cynical violation" of morality and international law, according to multiple outlets.

"Please accept my deep condolences in connection with the murder of the Supreme Leader of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Seyed Ali Khamenei, and members of his family, committed in cynical violation of all norms of human morality and international law," Putin said in a note to Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian, Reuters reported.

The Russian Foreign Ministry had previously released a statement condemning Operation Epic Fury. It warned that the U.S. and Israel "embarked on a perilous course that is swiftly pushing the region toward a humanitarian, economic, and potentially even radiological disaster."

"The aggressors’ intentions are evident and have been stated openly: to dismantle the constitutional order and remove the leadership of a state they deem undesirable because it has refused to yield to the dictates of force and hegemonic pressure," the statement read.

March 1

## Israel releases footage of large-scale strikes in Iran

The Israel Defense Forces released on Sunday footage of airstrikes on what it said was "the headquarters of the Iranian terror regime in Tehran." The footage appears to show multiple explosions.

March 1

## IDF confirms elimination of 40 Iranian commanders including armed forces chief of staff

The Israel Defense Forces(IDF) confirmed on Sunday that 40 senior Iranian commanders had been killed since the launch of "Operation Epic Fury," including the Chief of Staff of the Iranian Armed Forces in Tehran Abdolrahim Mousavi.

"Mousavi served as one of the highest senior military ranking officials and was the successor of Mohammad Bagheri, the Chief of Staff of the Iranian Armed Forces, who was eliminated in the opening strike of 'Operation Rision Lion' in June 2025," the IDF said in a statement.

"The majority of the highest-ranking senior military officials of the Iranian security leadership have been eliminated by the IDF," the Israeli military added.

The strikes in Iran, which began on Saturday, killed Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.

March 1

## Trump warns Iran against following through with retaliation threats

President Donald Trump warned Iran early Sunday that the U.S. will strike them with a force never seen before if Tehran follows through with its retaliation threats.

“Iran just stated that they are going to hit very hard today, harder than they have ever been hit before,” Trump wrote on Truth Social. “THEY BETTER NOT DO THAT, HOWEVER, BECAUSE IF THEY DO, WE WILL HIT THEM WITH A FORCE THAT HAS NEVER BEEN SEEN BEFORE!”

Trump's warning came after the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) said earlier Sunday that it would launch its “most-intense offensive operation,” beginning in “moments.”

Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei was killed Saturday in a targeted Israeli military strike.

March 1

## Israeli defense minister says ‘justice has been served’ after supreme leader killed

Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz said “justice has been served” after Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei was killed in an Israeli strike Saturday.

"The oppressor Khamenei was thwarted in the opening strike of Operation ‘Lion’s Roar,’ along with other senior officials in the Iranian terror fortress,” Katz said in a statement Sunday. “Whoever acted to destroy Israel was destroyed.”

“Justice has been served, and the axis of evil has suffered a fatal blow,” he added.

Katz praised Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu for his “leadership and determination” and the Israel Defense Forces for its “brilliant execution.”

“We will continue to act with all our might for the defense of the State of Israel,” he said.

March 1

## At least 6 killed as hundreds storm US Consulate in Karachi, Pakistan: report

At least six people were killed and 8 others injured after hundreds of protesters stormed the U.S. Consulate in Karachi, Pakistan, on Sunday.

About 500 Shiite Muslims gathered at the consulate to protest the joint attack on Iran by the U.S. and Israel, The Associated Press reported, smashing windows and clashing with security forces.

Police and paramilitary forces used batons and tear gas to disperse the crowd, a police official said.

The protest comes after Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, along several top leaders, were killed after an Israeli strike in Tehran on Saturday.

Breaking NewsMarch 1

## Israel striking Iranian terror regime targets in 'heart of Tehran'

The Israel Defense Forces said Sunday morning it has launched strikes in the "heart of Tehran," hitting targets that belong to the Iranian terror regime.

The IDF said these strikes in the Iranian capital are the first ones under "Operation Roaring Lion," which is the name Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu gave to the joint U.S.-Israel attack on Iran.

The wave of strikes are being conducted by the Israeli Air Force with guidance from IDF intelligence.

Large-scale strikes conducted on Saturday made it possible for the Israelis to "establish superiority and to pave the path to Tehran," the IDF said.

Live Coverage begins here