OpenAI to acquire developer tooling startup Astral

AI Age

Published Thu, Mar 19 2026 10:34 AM EDTUpdated Thu, Mar 19 2026 1:51 PM EDT

WATCH LIVE

KEY POINTS

- OpenAI said it will acquire Astral, a startup that builds tools for software developers.
- Astral's team will join OpenAI as part of the group running its AI coding assistant, Codex.
- OpenAI has been racing to build out Codex to win market share from rivals Anthropic and Cursor.

OpenAI CEO Sam Altman speaks during the BlackRock Infrastructure Summit on March 11, 2026, in Washington.

Anna Moneymaker | Getty Images

OpenAI on Thursday announced it's acquiring Astral, a small startup that builds popular open source tools for software developers.

Astral's team will join OpenAI and help build out its artificial intelligence coding assistant called Codex. The companies did not disclose the financial terms of the acquisition.

"Through it all, though, our goal remains the same: to make programming more productive. To build tools that radically change what it feels like to build software," Astral's founder and CEO Charlie Marsh wrote in a blog post.

AI coding assistants have exploded in popularity over the last year, and OpenAI has been racing to grab users and market share from rivals like Anthropic and Cursor, which have their own buzzy offerings for developers.

OpenAI said Thursday that Codex has more than 2 million weekly active users, and that the tool has seen a three-fold increase in user growth since the start of the year.

The company's acquisition of Astral is still subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approval.

OpenAI has made a number of recent acquisitions, including the $6.4 billion deal in May 2025 for Jony Ive's AI devices startup io. The company announced earlier this month that it will purchase the cybersecurity startup Promptfoo, and it bought the health-care technology startup Torch in January.

In December, OpenAI hired Google's Albert Lee to lead corporate development, a signal that the company will continue to hunt for M&A targets that can help it gain an edge.

WATCH: OpenAI renews focus on enterprise in all-hands meeting amid IPO push

## Read more CNBC tech news

- Micron revenue almost triples, tops estimates as demand for memory soars
- Uber to invest up to $1.25 billion in EV maker Rivian in deal to launch 50,000 robotaxis
- Meta is shutting down VR social platform Horizon Worlds in further pivot away from the metaverse
- Meta’s Manus launches desktop app to bring its AI agent onto personal devices amid OpenClaw craze

Related

1

2

3

4

5

-  OpenClaw's ChatGPT moment sparks concern that AI models are becoming commodities
-  ChatGPT's ad pilot has the industry excited, but some insiders are frustrated with the slow rollout
-  Why Spotify AI more than music will be the secret to keeping subscribers
-  Figma's stock drops 12% in two days after Google releases 'vibe design' product
-  How China is getting everyone on OpenClaw, from gearheads to grandmas

View the full site