U.S. and Israel attack Iran as Trump urges Iranians to 'take over' the government

Trump says Iran's supreme leader was killed in attack by U.S. and Israel

Feb. 28, 2026, 2:31 AM EST / Updated Feb. 28, 2026, 5:58 PM EST

By Alexander Smith, Freddie Clayton, Courtney Kube and Corky Siemaszko

This story is no longer being updated, for live coverage, please follow here.

The long-simmering threat of conflict between Washington, Jerusalem and Tehran erupted Saturday morning as the United States and Israel launched sweeping airstrikes against Iran.

The launch of “Operation Epic Fury” followed months of heated rhetoric and repeated warnings from the president about military intervention in Iran.

U.S. and partner forces struck multiple targets, including Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps command and control facilities, Iranian air defense capabilities, missile and drone launch sites and military airfields, U.S. Command announced in a statement.

There were no reports of American casualties and the damage to its facilities was minimal.

In an interview with NBC News, President Donald Trump addressed reports that Iran’s Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei was killed in the strikes, saying, “We feel that that is a correct story.”

He added that “most” of Iran’s senior leadership is “gone,” saying, “The people that make all the decisions, most of them are gone.”

Later, Trump posted on Truth Social that “Khamenei, one of the most evil people in History, is dead.”

“He was unable to avoid our Intelligence and Highly Sophisticated Tracking Systems and, working closely with Israel, there was not a thing he, or the other leaders that have been killed along with him, could do,” Trump posted.

The Iranian state media outlet Fars News reported that Trump’s claim is “baseless,” citing “informed sources.”

The report, which was shared to Telegram, did not specify which claim from Trump it was referring to. The post included only an image of Trump.

“It is worth noting that Trump has a long record of spreading false and fabricated news,” said the report, which NBC News translated from Farsi to English. “Among previous examples of this behavior is his claim about the fall of the city of Mashhad, which was later shown to have no factual basis and to have been merely media sensationalism.”

Tehran retaliated by firing missiles at Israel and at U.S. bases in several countries across the region, while officials, aid groups, and world leaders warned the confrontation could spill beyond its initial targets, drawing in more countries and destabilize a region already on the edge.

In a video statement early Saturday, Trump announced “major combat operations” against Iran, just two days after the latest round of talks with Tehran aimed at reaching an agreement to curtail Iran’s nuclear program.

“We sought repeatedly to make a deal,” Trump said in a statement released on Truth Social. “We tried.”

Iran’s Supreme National Security Council vowed in a statement that its armed forces will give a “crushing response” to the U.S. and Israeli attacks, as multiple U.S. allies in the region intercepted missiles targeting U.S. bases on their territory.

Iran is attacking military facilities and not “Americans in their land,” Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said in an interview with NBC News, adding that Tehran was interested in de-escalation and ready to talk once the joint U.S.-Israeli strikes end.

Meanwhile, more than 200 people were killed and some 747 people have been injured in the attacks on Iran, a spokesperson for the Red Crescent Society said in an interview with the Iranian Students’ News Agency.

“Twenty-four provinces across the country have been struck,” Mojtaba Khaledi said.

The United Nations Security Council held an emergency meeting Saturday during which Secretary-General António Guterres warned the attacks on Iran "carries the risk of igniting a chain of events that no one can control in the most volatile region of the world."

Earlier, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told his countrymen to “be resilient and strong.” And he urged the Iranian people, who since December have been protesting against the Islamic regime, to use this moment to finally oust the ayatollahs.

“This is an opportunity, do something. Do not sit with your arms crossed,” he said. “You have to complete this work and you have to bring down and eradicate this regime.”

Netanyahu’s office said earlier that the prime minister and Trump spoke after launching the initial attacks and released a photograph of Netanyahu on the phone.

The White House also confirmed the call, noting that Trump monitored the situation overnight from Mar-a-Lago.

Vice President JD Vance dialed into a conference line with Trump from the Situation Room in Washington, where he was joined by Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent, Director of National Intelligence Tulsi Gabbard and Energy Secretary Chris Wright, according to a source familiar with the matter.

Before the attacks, Secretary of State Marco Rubio attempted to contact a group of influential congressional leaders known as the “Gang of Eight” to give them a heads up. He was able to reach seven of the eight members.

“I implored him to be straight with Congress and the American people about the objectives of these strikes and what comes next,” Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., said in a statement. “Iran must never be allowed to attain a nuclear weapon but the American people do not want another endless and costly war in the Middle East when there are so many problems at home.”

Republicans have largely far expressed support for the attacks, but Democrats along with Rep. Thomas Massie and Sen. Rand Paul, both Kentucky Republicans, have expressed dismay that Trump had carried out the strikes without first seeking congressional authorization. Some members have vowed to force a war powers resolution vote to limit Trump’s ability to carry out further attacks on Iran.

Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., the chair of the Senate Intelligence Committee and a member of the Gang of Eight, said the Trump administration had “more than fulfilled its responsibilities” to notify Congress of the Iran strikes.

“The objective here is fairly clear,” he told Fox News. “It’s to, once again, put an end to Iran’s nuclear ambitions.”

Trump administration officials plan to brief lawmakers Sunday on the military attack, including members of the Senate and House intelligence, armed services and foreign affairs committees, according to two sources with knowledge of the matter.

In the early hours of the attack on Iran, the sound of multiple explosions echoed through Tehran, an NBC News producer on the ground reported.

Iran quickly announced it was closing its airspace and video from the country’s semiofficial news agency Tasnim showed smoke rising above buildings in the capital city.

“Our objective is to defend the American people by eliminating imminent threats from the Iranian regime,” Trump said in an eight-minute video message shared on Truth Social as the bombardment was underway.

“Bombs will be dropping everywhere,” he added, addressing Iranians directly. “When we are finished, take over your government. It will be yours to take.”

The administration was taking “every possible step” to minimize the risk to U.S. personnel, Trump added, but he warned that the lives of “courageous American heroes may be lost and we may have casualties.”

“That often happens in war,” he added.

Two U.S. officials told NBC News that Israel had been tasked with targeting Iranian leaders while the U.S. went after Iran’s ballistic missile and nuclear programs.

Tehran retaliated and in Abu Dhabi at least one person was killed by falling debris after an Iranian strike, the United Arab Emirates announced Saturday.

Other U.S. allies in the region, including Qatar, Kuwait, Bahrain and Jordan, also reported Iranian missile attacks on their territory.

Iran’s powerful Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps said on state television that it had targeted “the headquarters of the U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet in Bahrain, other U.S. bases in Qatar and the UAE, as well as military and security centers.”

There were no reported American casualties from Iran’s retaliatory strikes, two U.S. officials told NBC News on Saturday morning.

The officials conceded there was some damage to infrastructure in Bahrain after Iran struck the Fifth Fleet. But it was not immediately clear if the damage was on or off the base.

A military source in the General Command of the Jordanian Armed Forces told NBC News that two Iranian ballistic missiles had been shot down, while Qatar’s Ministry of Defense said it had intercepted a third wave of attacks. The U.S. Embassy in Jerusalem told government employees and their families to shelter in place until further notice.

Iran had vowed before the strikes that it would retaliate against any attack. It threatened to target Israel as well as American bases in the region.

Trump announces beginning of 'major combat operations in Iran'

Dozens of people were killed and scores more injured in an Israeli strike on a school in Iran’s southern county of Minab, the semiofficial Iranian news agency Mehr news reported Saturday.

The Israeli military’s situation room said it was looking into the reports of fatalities at the school. NBC News was not immediately able to confirm reports of the strike or the associated death toll.

Middle Eastern nations, including the U.S. ally Egypt, have warned that attacks could spark further conflicts in a region still reeling from the Israel-Hamas war in the Gaza Strip.

Mirjana Spoljaric Egger, president of the International Committee of the Red Cross, said military escalation was “igniting a dangerous chain reaction across the region, with potentially devastating consequences for civilians.”

“Humanitarian aid cannot match the pace or scale of suffering caused by continuous conflict,” she added.

Oman’s Foreign Minister Badr al-Busaidi, a key go-between in talks between the U.S. and Iran, said he was “dismayed” that “active and serious negotiations” had “yet again been undermined.”

“Neither the interests of the United States nor the cause of global peace are well served by this,” al-Busaidi said in a post on X, urging Washington not to “get sucked in further.”

Trump raised the prospect of an attack on Iran after authorities cracked down on huge nationwide demonstrations, which erupted in December and January over the country’s ailing economy but morphed into demands for the overthrow of the clerical regime.

Iranian women run for cover following an explosion in Tehran on Saturday.Majid Asgaripour / via Reuters

The regime ended up crushing the protests, killing thousands and arresting tens of thousands more in the weeks afterward.

Trump then threatened a military attack if a deal could not be reached with Tehran over its nuclear program — the same nuclear program the president initially claimed U.S. strikes “obliterated” in June.

A later U.S. assessment found these only destroyed one of three sites targeted.

There is still no publicly available evidence that Iran has made major progress in reviving its damaged nuclear program, including whether it has resumed significant uranium enrichment. The Trump administration has not specifically accused Iran of renewing uranium enrichment work.

Iran, which has always insisted that it has not pursued nuclear weapons, resisted demands that it halt uranium enrichment or expand talks to include its ballistic missile program and support for proxy forces across the Middle East.