Trump vows to 'avenge' the deaths of U.S. service members

President Donald Trump said he will "avenge" the deaths of three U.S. service members and said the combat operations in Iran that began Saturday will continue. Trump spoke in a pre-recorded Truth Social post Sunday afternoon.

Trump earlier Sunday told CNBC's Joe Kernen that U.S. military operations in Iran are "ahead of schedule."

The president's comments come as Iran's retaliation is intensifying after U.S.-Israeli strikes killed Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, triggering one of the most consequential moments for the Islamic Republic since 1979. The massive attack was launched on Iran overnight Saturday, after Iran refused American demands that it reduce its nuclear program.

Markets, policymakers and regional leaders are now watching closely to see how far the conflict spreads, and whether the power shift in Tehran alters Iran's political trajectory or further entrenches its security-first stance.

CORRECTION: A blog headline has been updated to clarify that senior cleric Ayatollah Alireza Arafi was appointed to Iran's interim Leadership Council.

Trump says U.S. 'ahead of schedule' in Iran

US President Donald Trump delivers remarks about energy at the Port of Corpus Christi in Texas, on Feb. 27, 2026.

Mandel Ngan | AFP | Getty Images

President Donald Trump told CNBC's Joe Kernen on Sunday that the U.S. operation in Iran is "moving along very well, very well — ahead of schedule."

"It's a very violent regime, one of the most violent regimes in history," Trump said, reached by phone. "We're doing our job not just for us but for the world. And everything is ahead of schedule."

Trump on Saturday began a joint strike on Iran that killed the country's leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Iran has since launched a counterattack. He has overseen the assault from his Mar-a-Lago residence in Palm Beach, Florida.

Trump addressed a potential off-ramp to end the conflict, which he said depends on many variables. But the president said things are moving in a positive direction.

"Things are evolving in a very positive way right now, a very positive way," he said.

3 U.S. service members killed during Iran operation

Three U.S. soldiers have been killed in the U.S.-Israeli military operation in Iran that killed the country's leader on Saturday, according to the U.S. Central Command.

"As of 9:30 am ET, March 1, three U.S. service members have been killed in action and five are seriously wounded as part of Operation Epic Fury," U.S. Central Command said in a post on X. "Several others sustained minor shrapnel injuries and concussions — and are in the process of being returned to duty."

The deaths are the first known U.S. casualties of the combat, which began early Saturday and has prompted fierce retaliation from Tehran. The identities of the soldiers have not yet been released, pending notification of their families.

Trump warned there could be casualties as a result of the operation on Saturday.

"That often happens in war. But we are doing this not for now, we are doing this for the future and it is a noble mission," Trump said.

Warner says he's seen 'no intelligence' Iran planned preemptive strike

Senator Mark Warner, a Democrat from Virginia, speaks to members of the media following a Gang of Eight briefing on Capitol Hill in Washington, DC, US, on Tuesday, Feb. 24, 2026.

Graeme Sloane | Bloomberg | Getty Images

Sen. Mark Warner, (D-Va.), the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said on Sunday he's seen "no intelligence" to suggest that Iran was planning a preemptive strike on the U.S., as the Trump administration has claimed.

"I saw no intelligence that Iran was on the verge of launching any kind of preemptive strike against the United States of America," Warner said on CNN's "State of the Union."

"None," Warner, who has access to highly classified information in his role, added.

Warner's statement directly contradicts the Trump administration's justification for the conflict. The administration said Saturday that the strikes came as Iran was readying to hit U.S. interests.

"We had analysis that basically told us, if we sat back and waited to get hit first, the amount of casualties and damage would be substantially higher than if we acted in a preemptive defensive way to prevent those launches from occurring, and that is the focus of the campaign right now," a senior Trump administration official told reporters Saturday, according to MS Now.

Republicans have largely defended the president's strike.

Sen. Tom Cotton, (R-Ark.), Warner's counterpart, said on CNN Sunday that "President Trump is right that it is absolutely vital and necessary now to address that threat before it fully materializes in the near future."

U.S. Embassy 'not in a position' to evacuate or assist U.S. nationals leaving Israel

An Israeli flag is displayed in front of a building near a road sign for the US embassy in Jerusalem on September 27, 2023.

Ahmad Gharabli | Afp | Getty Images

The U.S. Embassy in Jerusalem said it is "not in a position at this time to evacuate or directly assist Americans" who are trying to leave Israel.

Ben Gurion Airport, Israel's main international airport, remains closed to all commercial and charter flights, the Embassy said in a security alert.

It directed all U.S. government employees and their family members to continue to shelter in place in and near their residences until further notice.

"The U.S. Embassy reminds U.S. citizens of the continued need for caution and increased personal security awareness — including knowing the location of the nearest shelter in the event of a red alert as security incidents, such as mortar, rocket, and missile fire, and unmanned aircraft system (UAS) intrusions, often take place without any warning," the alert said. "The security environment is complex and can change quickly."