# Day 9 of Middle East conflict — new Iranian leader named, global markets react to oil surges

Updated 1:30 PM EDT, Mon March 9, 2026

Watch CNN's live coverage of the war in the Middle East

• Source: CNN

• Iran’s new leader: Slain longtime ruler Ali Khamenei’s son Mojtaba has been named the country’s next supreme leader. US President Donald Trump previously said Mojtaba would be an “unacceptable” choice.

• Regional attacks: Gulf states reported fresh aerial strikes, with dozens wounded in Bahrain. A seventh US service member has died in Saudi Arabia.

• War not abating: Israel said it launched new strikes on Beirut and central Iran, while Tehran announced new missile launches hours after it named its new leader. Trump said he will decide, together with Israel, when the war will end.

• School strike: New video appears to confirm a US airstrike targeted a naval base next to an Iranian school. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth said the US was “still investigating,” while Trump is pointing the finger at Iran.

• Oil shock roils markets: Asian markets sank as oil surged past $100 per barrel, a four-year high.

Read more

A newly emerged video appears to show a US airstrike targeting a building at the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) naval base adjacent to the elementary school in Minab, where Iranian state media says more than 160 pupils were killed on February 28.

The video, posted on Mehr News, a semi-official Iranian news agency, is the first to show missiles striking the area, and adds to a body of evidence that appears to contradict recent claims by US President Donald Trump casting blame on Iran.

In the footage, filmed from a nearby construction site, a munition consistent with an American BGM or UGM-109 Tomahawk Land Attack Missile (TLAM) is seen before it strikes a location inside the IRGC base. The US Navy operates Tomahawks, launching them from its surface ships and submarines. Israel does not operate the Tomahawk missile, according to experts.

As the camera pans to the right, a huge plume of smoke is seen from the direction of the Shajareh Tayyiba elementary school in Minab. Dozens of people can be seen in the foreground running away from the strikes.

Sam Lair, a research associate at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies (CNS), told CNN the munition in the video is consistent with a US Tomahawk Land Attack Missile (TLAM):

Other weapons experts consulted by CNN agreed with this assessment and added that TLAMs are often used in opening salvos before air supremacy is achieved. It was not immediately clear which exact building was struck, but an analysis by CNN suggested that it hit a building within or immediately next to a medical clinic operated by the IRGC at the base.

Last week, investigations by CNN and other media outlets suggested the US was likely responsible for the strike. Satellite imagery, geolocated videos, public statements from US officials and the assessment of munitions experts suggest that the school was hit at around the same time as an attack that American forces likely carried out on a neighboring IRGC naval base.

The US Department of Defense did not immediately respond to questions about the use of a Tomahawk missile on Sunday. When previously asked about the strikes, US Central Command told CNN that “it would be inappropriate to comment given the incident is under investigation.”

The new video shows smoke nearby at the time of the strike, suggesting nearby sites may also have been targeted shortly before. “The geolocated video shows a cruise missile hitting one of the centrally located buildings at the base,” said Lair. He added that while the video does not show the moment of impact on the school, it “was likely part of the same strike and would have been accompanied by other, similar cruise missiles.”

CNN is continuing efforts to obtain images of the remnants of the munition that hit the school. Such evidence is key in assessing responsibility for a strike, and without it, assessments cannot be conclusive.

On Saturday, Trump cast blame upon Iran for the Minab strike, contradicting analyses from CNN and other media outlets.

“Based on what I’ve seen, that was done by Iran,” Trump told reporters aboard Air Force One. Trump further characterized Iranian munitions as “very inaccurate.”

Asked by a reporter whether that was true, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth said, “We’re certainly investigating. But the only side that targets civilians is Iran.”

The White House has not previously ruled out that US military personnel carried out the strike. Iran has blamed the US for the Minab school strike, according to Iranian state media.

Read more

The Israeli military said it carried out a strike in Beirut overnight that killed several senior commanders from the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) Quds Force.

In a statement on Sunday, Israel Defense Forces (IDF) said the strike targeted five commanders from the Quds Force’s Lebanon Corps and Palestine Corps. The IDF said they were reportedly meeting at a hotel in the Lebanese capital.

According to IDF, the Lebanon Corps of the Quds Force serves as a key link between Hezbollah and Iran.

Lebanon said the strike, which targeted a hotel room in Beirut at dawn, killed four people and injured 10 others, according to the state-run National News Agency.

Read more

A seventh US service member died in the Iran war, US Central Command announced today, saying the American died from injuries received from a March 1 attack on US troops in Saudi Arabia.

“Last night, a U.S. service member passed away from injuries received during the Iranian regime’s initial attacks across the Middle East,” US Central Command said on X. “The service member was seriously wounded at the scene of an attack on U.S. troops in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on March 1.”

The name of the service member is being withheld until 24 hours after their next of kin is notified, as is custom.

The news of the fallen service member comes a day after the dignified transfer for the six soldiers who were killed in the war last week in Kuwait. President Donald Trump and other top officials joined the families of those troops as their loved ones were brought home at Dover Air Force Base in Delaware.

The president has previously said there will likely be more US casualties in the Iran war. Asked Saturday whether he thought he would have to attend more dignified transfers, Trump said, “I’m sure. I hate to … but it’s a part of war.”

This post has been updated with additional information.

Read more

Interior Secretary Doug Burgum argued Sunday that the rise in gas prices amid the war with Iran is not due to a global oil shortage, but rather a “transit issue” caused by disruptions to shipping through the Strait of Hormuz.

“This is not about lack of oil in the world. This is about a transit issue. This is about the Strait of Hormuz,” Burgum said on Fox News’ “Sunday Briefing.”

Burgum echoed other Trump administration officials, saying that with sustained military success, oil can be expected to start flowing out of the strait again “in the weeks ahead.”

He also argued the US has limited reliance on the region, saying only roughly 3% of US energy imports move through the strait.

Very few ships have transited the Strait of Hormuz, a crucial channel through which 20% of the world’s oil passes, since the war began more than a week ago.

Asked whether alternative supply could offset any Middle East disruptions, Burgum argued US energy production and Venezuelan resources can help counteract the gap, saying there is enough energy “because Venezuela is part of this equation now.”

More on gas prices: Since the fighting started in Iran a week ago, gasoline prices are up 47 cents, or 16%, to $3.45 for a gallon of regular, according to Sunday’s AAA reading.

Read more

British Prime Minister Keir Starmer spoke with Donald Trump about the Middle East on Sunday, Starmer’s office said in a statement, a day after the US president criticized the United Kingdom’s lack of immediate support for the US-Israeli strikes on Iran.

It added that Starmer shared his “heartfelt condolences” with Trump and the American people following the deaths of six US service members during the conflict with Iran.

CNN has reached out to the White House for comment.

Some key context: The call came after Trump on Saturday slammed Britain on social media for “finally giving serious thought” to deploying aircraft carriers to the Middle East.

He told Starmer “we don’t need them anymore,” but stressed: “We will remember. We don’t need people that join Wars after we’ve already won!”

Trump’s post was the second time he has criticized Starmer in recent days. At the White House on Tuesday, Trump said he was “not happy” with Starmer.

In Parliament on Wednesday, Starmer said he was not prepared for Britain “to join a war unless I was satisfied there was a lawful basis and a viable, thought-through plan.”

Read more

Health-care workers at the Karapitiya hospital in Galle, Sri Lanka, carry the bodies of Iranian sailors who died in a US torpedo attack on the frigate IRIS Dena off Sri Lanka's southern coast on March 4, 2026.

Iran said at least 104 crew members were killed and 32 others injured in a US attack on the Iranian warship Iris Dena last week, the semi-official Fars News Agency reported Sunday, citing official sources.

US Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth said Wednesday that a US submarine sank an Iranian warship in international waters.

The injured crew members were taken to a hospital in Sri Lanka for treatment after authorities there launched a rescue mission, according to Fars.

Read more

President Donald Trump said Sunday that the new supreme leader “is not going to last long” without his approval as Iran prepares to announce a successor to its longtime ruler, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.

“He’s going to have to get approval from us,” Trump told ABC News in an interview. “If he doesn’t get approval from us he’s not going to last long.”

Trump has repeatedly said he wants to be involved in the selection of Iran’s next leader, saying yesterday that he doesn’t “want to come back every 10 years.”

“We want to pick a president that’s not going to be leading their country into a war,” he told reporters aboard Air Force One on Saturday.

Trump previously told CNN he was open to having a religious leader in Iran.

“I mean, it depends on who the person is. I don’t mind religious leaders. I deal with a lot of religious leaders and they are fantastic,” he said last week.

Read more

Fire breaks out at an oil depot following an Israeli strike in Tehran, Iran on Sunday.

The sun has set in Tehran, and the Israeli military said it has begun “wide-scale strikes” on Iranian regime targets inside the capital of Tehran and elsewhere in the country.

A CNN team on the ground in Tehran said it heard a wave of strikes a short while ago. The Israeli military hit what it said was the headquarters of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps’ aerospace force in the new attack.

This comes after Tehran’s energy resources suffered a blow from a targeted Israeli onslaught overnight:

If you’re just tuning in, here’s what else you should know:

- US-UK relations: British Prime Minister Keir Starmer spoke with President Donald Trump Sunday, Downing Street said. This comes after Trump slammed the UK for their delayed deployment of aircraft carriers.
- Iran’s new supreme leader: Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi says “nobody knows” who will be next supreme leader amid reports that the body responsible has selected a replacement for Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
- Gulf countries weigh in: The United Arab Emirates doesn’t seek to be drawn into an escalation with Iran but reserves the right to protect its sovereignty, the foreign ministry said. Separately, Oman, warned that the Middle East stands at a “dangerous turning point.”
- US Central Command issued a warning to Iranian people that Iran was putting them at risk by using “heavily populated civilian areas” to launch drones and ballistic missiles, potentially making those areas military targets.
- Tehran focusing arsenal on US bases: Iran is using 60% of its firepower to attack US bases and “strategic interests” in the Middle East, the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps said.
- Trump admin on high gas prices: US President Donald Trump called soaring gas and diesel prices “a little glitch,” appearing unconcerned about the war’s effect on Americans at the pump. US Energy Secretary Chris Wright told CNN the US has “no plans” to strike Iran’s oil industry or other energy infrastructure, as Israel has done. Wright sought to assure Americans that average gas prices would fall back below $3 within weeks.

CNN’s Abbas Al Lawati, Tamar Michaelis, Billy Stockwell, Tim Lister, Kit Maher, Haley Britzky and Catherine Nicholls contributed to this report.

Read more

Two people were killed and 12 others injured after a military projectile struck a residential facility in Al-Kharj, about 107 km (66 miles) southeast of Riyadh, Saudi Civil Defense said. The incident marks the first reported deaths in the kingdom since the start of the war with Iran.

Saudi Civil Defense said emergency teams responded on Sunday after the projectile struck a housing site used by a maintenance and cleaning company.

The statement did not specify who launched the projectile.

Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps said earlier on Sunday that it had targeted radar systems at several locations, including in Al-Kharj, Iran’s state broadcaster IRIB reported.

Al-Kharj lies near Prince Sultan Air Base, a major Saudi air force installation southeast of Riyadh that has been targeted by Iran repeatedly in recent days.

The two killed were an Indian and a Bangladeshi national, while the 12 injured were all Bangladeshi.

Read more

The Israeli military said it has begun “wide-scale strikes” on Iranian regime targets in capital city Tehran and in “additional areas” in the country.

A CNN team on the ground in Tehran heard a wave of strikes a short while ago.

Read more

The Israeli military said a short while ago that it had carried out another wave of strikes in Tehran, hitting what it said was the headquarters of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps’ aerospace force.

The site was used for research purposes and satellite monitoring, according to the Israeli military.

In addition, the IDF said it had struck dozens of other sites including around 50 bunkers that it said stored ammunition, as well as an IRGC compound and an internal security center.

Read more

Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi says “nobody knows” who will be next supreme leader amid reports that the body responsible has selected a replacement for Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.

Speaking on NBC’s “Meet The Press” on Sunday, Araghchi said, “There are lots of rumors around, but we have to wait for the Assembly of Experts to convene and vote for the new Supreme Leader.”

The Assembly is an 88-member body of senior clerics that selects Iran’s Supreme Leader. Its members are elected by Iranian voters.

Araghchi said that until the assembly convenes, the interim leadership council is in charge, and all Iranian institutions are carrying out their work. Some observers say that a new leader can’t be appointed until the assembly meets in person.

Araghchi was also asked about US President Donald Trump’s assertion that he must have a say in the election of new leadership for Iran.

Nor would Iran accept Trump’s demand for unconditional surrender, he said.

He said that in June last year, Iran had accepted a ceasefire, but this time there needed to be a permanent end to the war.

“No one wants to continue this war,” Araghchi said, adding that Iran will continue to act in self-defense.

He insisted Iran was not attacking its neighbors but rather US facilities and installations in Gulf Arab countries.

Read more

The United States does not plan to strike Iran’s oil industry or other energy infrastructure sites, Energy Secretary Chris Wright told CNN’s Jake Tapper on “State of the Union.” But Israel has not demonstrated the same.

“There are no plans to target Iran’s oil industry, natural gas industry or anything about their energy industry,” Wright said. “These are Israeli strikes. These are local fuel depots to fill up the gas tank in this neighborhood in Tehran. The US is targeting zero energy infrastructure.”

Wright acknowledged the “air quality impacts” of the Israeli strikes on Iran’s oil storage sites, which Iranians have told CNN are “suffocating.” But he said “a few days of lower air quality in Tehran” is nothing compared to what the Iranian people suffered under the regime.

Gas prices: Wright also attempted to tout the Trump administration’s success lowering energy costs for Americans, while faced with the fact that gas and diesel have spiked during the conflict. Diesel prices are rising higher than gas right now, CNN reported, given it was in shorter supply previously.

“We’ve seen a dramatic decline in gasoline prices and diesel prices. Assume you will see it in electricity prices, as well,” Wright said, referring to previous administration efforts. “Gasoline today is still $1.50 a gallon cheaper than it was in the middle of Biden administration, but you’re right; we want it back below $3 a gallon, and it will be again before too long.”

Pressed by Tapper what “too long” means, Wright said weeks — not months.

This post has been updated with video from the interview.

Read more