Trump urges regime change as Iran's supreme leader is killed after U.S., Israel attack

---

EVENT ENDEDLast updated March 02, 2026, 2:16 AM EDT

Three U.S. service members have been killed in action and five others have been seriously wounded, the U.S. military said.

U.S., Israel and Iran trade new strikes as conflict escalates

01:43

Add NBC News to Google

T0--

This liveblog has now ended — follow the latest updates here.

## What to know

- IRAN LEADERSHIP COUNCIL: Ayatollah Ali Reza Arafi has been appointed as the jurist member of Iran's Leadership Council, the body temporarily running Iran after Khamenei's killing. Other members include President Masoud Pezeshkian and judiciary chief Gholamhossein Mohseni Ejei.
- IRAN RETALIATES: Air raid sirens sounded in Tel Aviv as Iran fired back at Israel, and the Israeli military said it was working on intercepting the missiles. Israel also launched a new wave of strikes in Tehran today.
- CONGRESS SET FOR BRIEFINGS: Lawmakers will receive classified briefings Tuesday from Secretary of State Marco Rubio, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth, CIA Director John Ratcliffe and Gen. Dan Caine, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. They will brief all House and Senate members, officials told NBC News.
- U.S. SERVICE MEMBERS KILLED: Three U.S. service members have been killed in action and five more have been seriously wounded in military operations against Iran, the U.S. military said today. President Donald Trump said there will “likely be more” American casualties before the U.S. military operation in Iran ends.
- HEZBOLLAH AND ISRAEL EXCHANGE STRIKES: Hezbollah said that in retaliation for the killing of Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, it launched strikes on an Israeli missile defense site. The Israel Defense Forces said that in return it is firing back on targets related to the militant group in Lebanon.

NEW UPDATES

17d ago / 2:16 AM EDT

For the first time in 37 years, the sun rose on a leaderless Tehran, its streets unusually hushed as Iranians awoke to the news that Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei had been killed in joint U.S.-Israeli airstrikes.

In the capital, the mood was suspended between grief and disbelief.

Morteza Nikoubazl / NurPhoto via Getty Images

Black-clad mourners wept for Khamenei, beating their chests and clutching portraits of the man who ruled Iran for nearly four decades. Others, beyond Tehran and across social media, celebrated his death, dancing in the streets.

Questions now hang over who will succeed the Middle East’s longest-serving head of state, and what comes next for a nation already battered by war abroad and dissent at home.

Read the full story here.

17d ago / 1:51 AM EDT

Israeli strikes in southern Lebanon killed at least 31 Lebanese citizens and injured 149 others, according to Lebanon’s health ministry.

The ministry warned that the numbers are preliminary and could grow.

The Israeli strikes came after Hezbollah, a militant Iranian proxy group, claimed responsibility for strikes on an Israeli missile defense site.

Lebanese President Joseph Aoun decried attacks launched from Lebanese territory, as well as the Israeli counterstrikes. He urged groups not to use Lebanon for proxy wars and warned that the operations threaten the country’s safety.

“This is something the state will not allow to be repeated, and the Lebanese people — who are still working to this day to heal the wounds caused by previous confrontations — will not accept it,” he said on X.

17d ago / 1:27 AM EDT

Dawn Staley, coach of women's college basketball powerhouse South Carolina, said on social media that the school is working to help three former players return home from Israel, where they are playing professionally.

The trio of former Gamecocks — Tiffany Mitchell, Destiny Littleton and Mikiah Herbert Harrigan — as well as other former WNBA players, are playing basketball in Israel, which along with the United States launched an attack on Iran on Saturday.

Staley wrote Saturday on X asking for prayers for the players "who are in a war zone in Israel."

“We are working a plan to get home," she said in the post. "Let us pray for our loved ones to return home safely asap! Thank you in advance.”

Show more

Mitchell played last season in Seattle, while Harrigan was on the Phoenix Mercury. Other players in the Israeli league with WNBA ties include Victoria Vivians, Christyn Williams, Shyanne Sellers, Arella Guirantes and Evina Westbrook.

“It’s 12:48 am and I’m going to attempt to get some sleep,” Littleton posted. “Prayers for safety for everyone impacted.”

In another post, Littleton recorded herself as a siren was going off in the background. "Unfortunate, but this is the circumstance right now," she said.

"I'm safe," she posted Sunday.

17d ago / 1:06 AM EDT

The U.S. Embassy in Kuwait today urged Americans in the country to shelter in place.

The alert was prompted by ongoing threats of missile and drone attacks over Kuwait, the embassy said in a post on X.

"Do not come to the Embassy. Take cover in your residence on the lowest available floor and away from windows. Do not go outside," it said.

The embassy advised people to immediately seek cover if they hear a loud explosion or siren, go to the lowest level of a building if indoors and stay away from any windows or openings.

"Be aware that even if the incoming missile or drone is intercepted, falling debris represents a significant risk," it said.

17d ago / 12:47 AM EDT

Iran will not negotiate with the U.S., the secretary of the country's Supreme National Security Council said.

Ali Larijani made the comments on X apparently in response to previous Wall Street Journal reporting, citing Arab and U.S. officials, that he had made a push through mediators to resume nuclear talks with the U.S.

Trump earlier told NBC News that Iranian officials were interested in continuing talks with the U.S.

17d ago / 12:10 AM EDT

Nobel laureate Malala Yousafzai, who gained fame as a child advocate for girls’ education, condemned the reported attack on a girls’ school in Iran.

“Every child deserves to live and learn in peace,” she said yesterday on social media.

Malala Yousafzai in Islamabad, Pakistan, last year. Aamir Qureshi / AFP via Getty Images

The governor of Minab county said the bodies of 165 people were recovered from the rubble of the Shajareh Tayyebeh school, according to the semiofficial Fars news agency.

Show more

Yousafzai, who became the youngest person to receive a Nobel Peace Prize when she accepted the award in 2014, described reported victims as “girls who went to school to learn, with hopes and dreams for their future.”

“I am heartbroken and appalled by the U.S. and Israeli strikes on Iran, including reports that a girls’ school in southern Iran was hit, resulting in the injury and death of many girls,” she wrote. “The killing of civilians, especially children, is unconscionable, and I condemn it unequivocally.”

She said she wants the warfare to end and accountability to begin.

17d ago / 11:55 PM EDT

The president of Lebanon echoed sentiment the country's prime minister expressed in decrying attacks launched from Lebanese soil, which have already drawn a counterattack from Israel.

Neither President Joseph Aoun nor Prime Minister Nawaf Salam mentioned the affiliation of the fighters responsible for the attacks, but earlier, Hezbollah, a militant group backed by Iran, claimed responsibility for strikes on an Israeli missile defense site, and Israel responded by saying it was striking Hezbollah locations in southern Lebanon.

“While we condemn the Israeli aggressions on Lebanese territory, we warn that persisting in using Lebanon once again as a platform for support wars in which we have no involvement will expose our homeland once more to risks for which those parties ... bear responsibility,” Aoun said today on X.

He added, "This is something the state will not allow to be repeated, and the Lebanese people—who are still working to this day to heal the wounds caused by previous confrontations—will not accept it."

Show more

Israel's response proved what both Lebanese leaders have said — unauthorized strikes from Lebanon's territory will draw counterattacks that put civilians in harm's way.

Hezbollah is a well-armed Shia group that has been critical of U.S. military presence in the Middle East and Israel's war on Hamas militants in neighboring Gaza.

Lebanon's leadership is under a peacemaking, power-sharing structure under which the president, the prime minister and the parliamentary speaker each represent of one of three faiths: Maronite Christians, Sunni Muslims and Shia Muslims.

17d ago / 11:33 PM EDT

In his first term, Trump effectively killed a negotiated Iran nuclear deal in 2018, which his critics have mentioned today after the Israeli and U.S. military strikes.

The nuclear deal, called the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, was negotiated with Iran during the Obama administration in 2015.

The Obama White House in 2016 hailed the deal as significantly delaying any attempt by Iran to produce enough fissile material to make a nuclear weapon, from two to three months to a year or more.

In 2018, Trump said the U.S. was withdrawing, calling it insufficient.

“It is clear to me that we cannot prevent an Iranian nuclear bomb under the decaying and rotten structure of the current agreement,” Trump said in a national address on May 8, 2018.

Show more

President Joe Biden’s administration tried to revive the deal but was not successful.

Then-Secretary of State Antony Blinken said, “Iran, for a variety of reasons, has chosen to insert extraneous issues into the effort to revive the JCPOA.”

Sen. Tim Kaine, D-Va., brought up Trump’s 2018 decision in criticizing this weekend’s military strikes.

“Has President Trump learned nothing from decades of U.S. meddling in Iran and forever wars in the Middle East?” Kaine said in a statement yesterday.

“Is he too mentally incapacitated to realize that we had a diplomatic agreement with Iran that was keeping its nuclear program in check, until he ripped it up during his first term?”

17d ago / 11:11 PM EDT

The issue of who will succeed Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has been complicated since the death of Iran’s former President Ebrahim Raisi in a helicopter crash in May 2024.

Until then it would have been an easy transition to Raisi, a well-spoken hard-liner who was trusted by both Iran’s clerical leadership and its military.

Iran has faced a leadership crisis since his death, as there was no other clear candidate to succeed Khamenei, who did not publicly designate who would take over if he died.

There had been some mention that Khamenei’s second son, Mojtaba Khamenei, was among the contenders.

Show more

While he is known to wield significant influence among the administrators and the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, the most powerful military body, he is not very popular in Iran and does not really have the religious credentials to become an ayatollah, so it would also look awkward for a clerical regime, a theocracy that claims to be representing God’s will on Earth.

His lineage is also a big barrier. Father-to-son succession is frowned upon in Iran, particularly after the U.S.-backed monarchy of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi was toppled in 1979.

So there was already this leadership crisis, which is now being worsened because Israel is killing off leaders and potential successors.

17d ago / 10:41 PM EDT

01:19

The U.S. and Gulf countries today condemned Iran’s missile and drone attacks in the region.

“The United States, Bahrain, Jordan, Kuwait, Qatar, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates strongly condemn the Islamic Republic of Iran’s indiscriminate and reckless missile and drone attacks against sovereign territories across the region,” they said in a statement. “These unjustified strikes targeted sovereign territory, endangered civilian populations, and damaged civilian infrastructure.”

"The targeting of civilians and of countries not engaged in hostilities is reckless and destabilizing behavior," the statement continued.

17d ago / 10:25 PM EDT

3 U.S. service members killed in Iran military operation

01:31

“Operation Epic Fury” started at 1:15 a.m. ET Saturday (9:45 a.m. in Tehran). The U.S. deployed B-2 stealth bombers, fighter jets, missiles, rockets and other weapon systems that the Defense Department wouldn’t disclose. They targeted Iran’s navy, missile sites, command and control headquarters and air defense systems.

The timing was no accident. Both the U.S. and Israeli spy agencies had been tracking Khamenei’s whereabouts. The intelligence showed that he would be meeting with senior deputies that morning, according to two people briefed on the matter.

Rather than launch the operation at night, leaders moved the assault to daylight in hope of killing him and his cohorts, the people said.

Trump said in an interview with NBC News that the operation was “ahead of schedule, and obviously, when we get 48 leaders, that’s a big event.”

Read the full story here.

Al Drago / Bloomberg via Getty Images file

17d ago / 10:07 PM EDT

Pentagon officials briefed key congressional staff on the Iran operation today, telling them that Iran’s ballistic missiles and proxy forces posed an imminent threat, but there was no intelligence to suggest Iran was planning to strike U.S. forces, a person with direct knowledge told NBC News.

That runs counter to what senior administration officials told reporters yesterday.

Staff members were told that so far, U.S. strikes have focused on air defenses and command and control sites and that the military is expending an enormous amount of munitions throughout the operation.

NBC News has reported that key administration officials, including Secretary of State Marco Rubio and Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth, will brief all lawmakers Tuesday in the Capitol.

17d ago / 9:50 PM EDT

Lebanon's prime minister today condemned rocket fire from the southern region of his country, saying it could endanger Lebanese people and give Israel an excuse to attack.

The Israel Defense Forces has said it carried out retaliatory attacks on Hezbollah targets.

Prime Minister Nawaf Salam's statement didn't name the Iranian proxy fighters Hezbollah, but it came shortly after Hezbollah claimed responsibility for strikes on an Israeli missile defense site south of Haifa in Israel today.

The group, long critical of U.S. military presence in the Middle East and Israel's war with Hamas militants in Gaza, has used southern Lebanon as a base for past attacks.

"Regardless of who is behind it, the rocket fire from southern Lebanon is an irresponsible and suspicious act that endangers Lebanon's security and safety and gives Israel pretexts to continue its attacks on it," Salam said on X.

Later, IDF Lt. Col. Ella Waweya advised residents of a long list of southern Lebanese cities to evacuate.

"Hezbollah activities are forcing the Defense Army to act against it; the Israeli Defense Forces do not wish to harm you," Waweya said. "For your safety, you must immediately evacuate your homes and move away from the villages by at least 1,000 meters to open areas."

17d ago / 9:25 PM EDT

A Royal Air Force base in Cyprus, RAF Akrotiri, was hit in a drone strike today, with no injuries reported.

A spokesperson for the U.K.'s Defense Ministry confirmed the strike in a statement to Sky News, saying that the situation was still fluid and that U.K. forces were responding to the strike, which was said to have taken place about midnight Sunday Eastern European Standard Time.

“Our force protection in the region is at the highest level and the base has responded to defend our people," the spokesperson said.

Cyprus is an island nation in the Eastern Mediterranean off Syria, where the U.K. recently bolstered its presence with radar, counter-drone systems, F-35 fighter jets and air defense technology.

The build-up is part of an effort to support security and stability in the Middle East and defend its interests there, U.K. officials have said.

17d ago / 9:07 PM EDT

Iranian Americans anxiously watch conflict unfold in Middle East

01:34

Los Angeles County is home to the biggest p r o po rtion of the estimated half-million people or so with Iranian heritage in the U.S., and it's here that Iranian flags and expressions of hope-filled streets yesterday.

The city of Beverly Hills, as well as the Los Angeles city communities of Westwood, Beverlywood, Pico-Robertson, Sherman Oaks and Encino, collectively compose "Tehrangeles," where flags with red and green banners flew out of cars and hung from storefronts.

Show more

Many if not most of the Iranian-born U.S. immigrants who settled on the west side of Los Angeles County are people of Jewish faith who fled after the country's anti-monarchy, pro-Islamic revolution in 1979 endangered their existence there.

"All the diaspora of Iranians are excited because we see freedom at hand," a woman said as she demonstrated on the street in Westwood yesterday.

Area resident Shailene Farabi visited Iran as a young child but hasn't returned. Yesterday, she had hopeful words.

"I think it will change," she said. "Life will be better over there."

17d ago / 8:23 PM EDT

The Lebanese militant group Hezbollah launched missiles and drones at Israel today in retaliation for the killing of Khamenei, the group’s most prominent benefactor, and Israel struck back at targets in Lebanon.

A missile defense site south of Haifa was attacked “in retaliation for the pure blood of the supreme leader of the Muslims,” Hezbollah said in a statement.

Hezbollah’s attack raises the prospect that the conflict could spread across the region, with Iran’s other allies, like militia groups in Iraq or the Houthis in Yemen, joining the fray.

Hezbollah supporters rally in solidarity with Iran near the capital city of Beirut on Sunday. Houssam Shbaro / Anadolu via Getty Images

The Israel Defense Forces said in a statement that it had carried out retaliatory attacks.

Show more

“In response to Hezbollah’s projectile fire toward the State of Israel, the IDF is currently striking Hezbollah targets,” the statement said. “The Hezbollah terrorist organization is operating on behalf of the Iranian regime, opening fire against the State of Israel and its civilians.”

The statement continued: “The IDF will operate against Hezbollah’s decision to join the campaign, and will not enable the organization to constitute a threat to the State of Israel and harm the civilians of northern Israel."

17d ago / 8:02 PM EDT

The United Kingdom has granted the U.S. permission to use British airbases to strike Iranian ballistic missile sites, according to British Prime Minister Keir Starmer.

The Pentagon made the request of the British government yesterday. Today, the British government granted the request for U.S. forces to use British bases on Cyprus and Diego Garcia, an island in the Indian Ocean, according to a person familiar with the matter.

The British government has taken pains to ensure the world knows it did not participate in the U.S. and Israeli strikes yesterday. But British officials, concerned about the safety of British citizens in the Middle East, do believe that Iranian ballistic missile sites should be destroyed to mitigate the threat.

Show more

“The only way to stop the threat is to destroy the missiles at source — in their storage depots or the launchers which are used to fire the missiles,” Starmer said in a prepared statement. The U.S. request was to use bases for that “specific and limited defensive purpose,” he said.

“The basis of our decision is the collective self-defense of longstanding friends and allies, and protecting British lives,” Starmer said.

He reiterated that the U.K. won’t be joining the strikes but would “continue with our defensive actions in the region.”

17d ago / 7:46 PM EDT

Khamenei was probably targeted because he was seen as a personal obstacle to a nuclear deal's being agreed to with the U.S. and its allies.

A man in his 80s, he was known to be extraordinarily stubborn, and American intelligence services and likely their Israeli counterparts had concluded that he would not change course.

17d ago / 7:03 PM EDT

The U.S. Embassy in Bahrain said it will be closed tomorrow "due to ongoing regional tensions."

The embassy said yesterday that nonemergency personnel and their families are authorized to leave Bahrain amid the strikes on Iran.

Today, the embassy for the island kingdom on the Persian Gulf said the closure will be in effect until further notice.

"We have canceled all regular and emergency consular appointments for Monday, March 2, 2026," it said in its announcement. "We will communicate when the embassy returns to normal operations."

17d ago / 6:47 PM EDT

Oil and gas prices expected to surge after U.S. attack on Iran

01:32

The price of oil surged today after U.S. and Israeli strikes on Iran, which killed its supreme leader.

U.S. crude oil soared 12% while Brent, the international oil benchmark, surged 14% after trading began at 6 p.m. ET.

Even before the weekend’s escalation, oil prices had risen 17% this year off Trump’s ramped-up rhetoric against the Iranian regime. The Trump administration has also ratcheted up sanctions on Iran in recent months.

While Iran’s oil production is estimated to be less than 5% of global output — most of which goes to China because of U.S. sanctions — it has major influence over the Strait of Hormuz.

Read the full story here.

17d ago / 6:39 PM EDT

The U.S. Embassy in Kuwait today authorized nonemergency government personnel to depart, citing "safety risks" and the elevation of its official travel warning to its penultimate level.

The embassy said the personnel and their families are authorized to go amid the strikes between the U.S. and Iran. The embassy today lifted its travel advisory for Kuwait to Level 3, one level below "do not travel." Under Level 3 for the country, Americans are warned, "Reconsider travel to Kuwait due to the threat of armed conflict."

It also warned of "an ongoing threat of drone and missile attacks from Iran and significant disruptions to commercial flights" and singled out the area near the country's airport.

The U.S. Embassy in Bahrain issued a similar authorization yesterday amid a Level 3 travel advisory.

17d ago / 6:14 PM EDT

U.S. Central Command has shared several videos showing missiles and other military hardware in action as the U.S. continues strikes on Iran.

The videos, some of which are labeled "unclassified," show missiles launched from vehicles and ships, as well as apparent targets being struck.

"The Iranian regime’s reckless use and proliferation of ballistic missiles have been a dangerous threat for decades. Now, at the President’s direction, U.S. forces are eliminating the threat," CENTCOM said in a post today that included a video of what appeared to be a car receiving a direct strike.

17d ago / 5:47 PM EDT

U.S. Central Command accused Iran of targeting civilian sites across the Middle East, disputing a statement made my Iran's ambassador to the United Nations.

In a fact-check statement on X, CENTCOM said the Iranian ambassador told the U.N. Security Council that Tehran's response has been directed "solely and exclusively" at U.S. bases and assets. CENTCOM call the assertion a "lie."

"The Iranian Regime is actively targeting civilians and has attacked more than a dozen locations," the command wrote.

Smoke rising from a reported Iranian strike in an industrial district of Doha, Qatar on Sunday. Mahmud Hams / AFP via Getty Images

CENTCOM said major international airports in Dubai, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates have been attacked. It also cited Erbil International Airport in Iraq, the Port of Dubai and multiple hotels in Dubai and Bahrain.

The command further alleged that residential areas in Tel Aviv and Beit Shemesh, Israel, as well as residential areas in Bahrain and Qatar, had been targeted.

NBC News has not independently verified CENTCOM's full list of locations.

17d ago / 4:46 PM EDT

Trump said there will “likely be more” American casualties before the U.S. military operation in Iran ends.

He made the remarks in a video on Truth Social hours after U.S. Central Command announced the deaths of three Americans.

“As one nation, we grieve for the true American patriots who have made the ultimate sacrifice for our nation, even as we continue the righteous mission for which they gave their lives,” Trump said.

He added that "we'll do everything possible" to prevent more casualties. But he warned that "America will avenge their deaths and deliver the most punishing blow to the terrorists who have waged war against, basically, civilization."

Trump again said the U.S. will not allow Iran to develop long-range missiles and nuclear weapons. He also called on the IRGC and the Iranian military and police “to lay down your arms and receive full immunity or face certain death.”

Trump says more American casualties ‘likely’ during Iran operation

11:54

17d ago / 4:10 PM EDT

Congress will get its first set of briefings on Iran on Tuesday, according to one White House official and a congressional official.

Secretary of State Marco Rubio, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth, CIA Director John Ratcliffe and Gen. Dan Caine, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, will brief all House and Senate members, the officials said.

The Senate briefing will take place at 3:30 p.m. ET, and the House briefing will take place at 5 p.m., according to the officials.

Both briefings will be classified.

17d ago / 3:58 PM EDT

Demonstrators flocked to New York City's Times Square to show support for the U.S. and Israeli campaign against Iran. Many waved pre-Islamic Revolution Iranian flags bearing the lion-and-sun emblem.

Gabriella Rudy / NBC News

Gabriella Rudy / NBC News

17d ago / 3:46 PM EDT

Omani Foreign Minister Badr al-Busaidi repeated his push for diplomacy, saying peace in the region is still possible.

"Talks in Geneva made genuine progress towards an unprecedented agreement between Iran and the United States and although the hope was to avoid war, war should not mean that the hope of peace is extinguished," he said on social media. "I still believe in the power of diplomacy to resolve this conflict. The sooner talks are resumed the better it is for everyone."

Yesterday, he lamented that ongoing negotiations with Iran had been undermined by this weekend's attack and said both U.S. and global interests could suffer should military operations escalate.

17d ago / 3:19 PM EDT

Flight disruptions continued across the Middle East today as multiple airports in the region remained closed amid the escalating conflict.

More than 1,500 flights that were scheduled to fly to destinations in the Middle East were canceled today, according to the aviation analytics firm Cirium. Israel’s airspace has also been closed to civil aviation.

Stranded passengers at an Emirates Airways customer service office at I Gusti Ngurah Rai International Airport in Kuta, Bali, Indonesia. Johannes P. Christo / Reuters

Show more

Some major international carriers announced suspensions:

L1--

- KLM, the Dutch flag carrier, said it would not operate flights to Dubai or the UAE or to Riyadh and Dammam in Saudi Arabia through Thursday.
- Lufthansa said it was suspending flights to Tel Aviv; Beirut; Amman, Jordan; Erbil, Iraq; Dammam, Saudi Arabia; and Tehran until next Sunday, and that it would not be using the airspace above Iran, Israel, Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq, Qatar, Kuwait and Bahrain, as well as Dammam. Flights to Dubai and Abu Dhabi are suspended until Wednesday, and the carrier will not use UAE airspace during that period.

Airports and airlines across the region reporting shutdowns:

D3--

- Qatar Airways said that it “will resume operations once the Qatar Civil Aviation Authority announces the safe reopening of Qatari airspace.”
- Doha’s Hamad International Airport said “all aircraft movements have been suspended due to the temporary closure of the Qatari airspace.”
- Emirates, the Dubai-based airline, said it had “temporarily suspended all operations to and from Dubai" until 3 p.m. tomorrow UAE time.
- Dubai Airports said it had suspended flights “until further notice.”

17d ago / 2:52 PM EDT

About 200 people were at the site of a strike on the Israeli city of Beit Shemesh today, among them police officers and first responders.

Saeed Qaq / Anadolu via Getty Images

Bulldozers and other heavy equipment were on the scene, but they didn’t appear to be searching for survivors. Instead, they appeared to be trying to secure the site, calm onlookers and take forensic evidence and witness statements.

About a dozen houses in the vicinity of the bomb strike showed heavy damage, with doors and windows blown open and rubble and broken tile scattered in the streets.

Saeed Qaq / Anadolu via Getty Images

At least nine people were killed and 28 were taken to hospitals, Israel’s emergency service, Magen David Adom, said on X.

An Israeli military search-and-rescue spokesperson at the scene said it was evidence that Iran was targeting civilians, pointing out that there were no military bases or command centers in the vicinity.

17d ago / 2:50 PM EDT

Amazon Web Services, the cloud computing division of Amazon, said one of its data centers in the United Arab Emirates was knocked offline earlier today after the facility was "impacted by objects that struck the data center, creating sparks and fire."

"The fire department shut off power to the facility and generators as they worked to put out the fire," Amazon added. It said that it is still awaiting permission to turn the power back on and that getting the data center back up and running might take "several hours."

17d ago / 2:28 PM EDT

Israeli strikes hit a hospital in Tehran’s Gandhi Street area, two witnesses told Reuters, saying the hospital was badly damaged and patients were being taken out.

Video verified by NBC News shows extensive damage to a hospital building in Tehran. Windows were blown out, and debris littered the streets.

17d ago / 2:15 PM EDT

People watch from a rooftop as a plume of smoke rises from a strike in Tehran on Sunday. Vahid Salemi / AP

The Israeli military said it targeted "dozens" of command centers of the Revolutionary Guard in Tehran today.

Explosions were heard earlier from central Tehran near the location of the Intelligence Ministry.

The targeted locations include intelligence headquarters, command centers and internal security headquarters, the Israel Defense Forces said.

"The strikes were directed at command centers in which IDF intelligence had identified active operational presence of Iranian regime personnel responsible for managing combat operations and planning terror campaigns against the State of Israel and regional countries," the IDF said.

NBC News has not independently verified the IDF's report.

17d ago / 1:45 PM EDT

Eight oil-rich nations that are a part of a group called OPEC+ say they plan to increase their collective production by 206,000 barrels of crude oil per day after the strikes in Iran this weekend threatened to upset global oil markets.

The announcement was a move to pre-emptively calm those markets. Analysts expect oil prices will surge when trading opens at 6 p.m. ET.

Iran produces less than 5% of global oil output, but it has influence over the Strait of Hormuz, a key passage for oil tankers and container ships.

More than 20% of the daily global oil supply passes through the strait, and already a half-dozen cargo shipping companies have halted vessels headed to the waterway, raising concerns of wider supply chain issues in the coming weeks.

How the attacks on Iran could affect oil and gas prices

03:35

18d ago / 1:19 PM EDT

Mark Kelly calls Khamenei’s death a ‘good thing’ but slams lack of 'plan' in Iran: Full interview

08:28

Sen. Mark Kelly, D-Ariz., said he agreed with assessments that the world is safer with Iran's supreme leader dead.

Speaking on "Meet the Press," Kelly said eliminating Khamenei removes a destabilizing force but cautioned that the U.S. needs a clear path forward.

At the same time, Kelly criticized Trump’s post to Truth Social referencing his hopes for the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and police to “peacefully merge with the Iranian Patriots.”

“Hope is not a strategy,” Kelly said, criticizing Trump's Truth Social post in which he said he hoped members of the Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and police would "peacefully merge with the Iranian Patriots."

“We got to have a plan here," Kelly said. "I mean, what is the strategic goal, and how do we achieve it?”

Asked whether the U.S. could continue the operation without putting troops on the ground, Kelly said “that is incredibly challenging.”

Kelly argued that Iran cannot be allowed to develop a nuclear weapon, but criticized Trump for having withdrawn from the Iran nuclear deal during his first term.

18d ago / 1:04 PM EDT

President Donald Trump told NBC News that the U.S. strikes are "ahead of schedule" and suggested one possible outcome from the attacks is "decapitating" Iran's leadership.

“We expect casualties with something like this. We have three, but we expect casualties — but in the end it’s going to be a great deal for the world,” Trump said, referencing the three Americans who died in Kuwait during the operation.

Asked what outcome he would like to see, Trump described the possible scenarios.

“There are many outcomes that are good," he said. "Number one is decapitating them, getting rid of their whole group of killers and thugs. And there are many, many outcomes. We could do the short version or the longer version.”

Trump also said Iranian officials are interested in continuing talks with the U.S., but declined to say whether the U.S. will pause strikes during diplomatic efforts.

“I don’t know," he said. "If they can satisfy us. They haven’t been able to.”

Trump says strikes on Iran are 'ahead of schedule'

05:33

A senior White House official told NBC that Trump will "eventually" talk to "new potential leadership in Iran."

"For now, Operation Epic Fury continues unabated," the official said.

Trump said again he launched the strikes because the Iranians "weren’t willing to stop their nuclear research" and "weren’t willing to say they will not have a nuclear weapon."

Read the full story here.

18d ago / 12:48 PM EDT

The aftermath of a strike on a school in Minab, Iran, on Saturday. Abbas Zakeri / Mehr News via Reuters

The governor of Minab county announced the end of search and recovery operations for the student victims in a strike on a girls primary school in southern Iran, according to the semiofficial Fars news agency.

The bodies of 165 victims were recovered from beneath the rubble of the Shajareh Tayyebeh school in the town of Minab, the governor said.

NBC News could not independently confirm the reported casualties.

Further details about the circumstances of the strike and the identities of the victims were not immediately available.

18d ago / 12:37 PM EDT

The attack that killed three U.S. service members and injured at least five more as part of Operation Epic Fury occurred in Kuwait, according to two U.S. officials.

The troops are part of an Army sustainment unit based in Kuwait.

CENTCOM announced the casualties earlier. It did not identify the service members.

18d ago / 12:36 PM EDT

Everything in Iran “will get cured” if the regime is removed, a young man inside the Islamic Republic said in a video provided to NBC News from an Iranian filmmaker.

Residents watch from the roofs of their houses as plumes of smoke rise in Tehran, Iran, on Sunday. Atta Kenare / AFP - Getty Images

“It’s like a tumor. This tumor needs to be gone,” he said in the interview last night, before the death of Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. If the country’s leaders were annihilated, “we would just finish them,” he added.

NBC News agreed not to use his name due to security concerns.

The man works in tourism and said he took part in recent protests against Iran’s hard-line regime. Bases belonging to the Basij militia, a youth branch of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, whose members often assist security forces in quelling protests, “should be bombarded,” he added.

“Right now we are filled with anger and our hope is freedom,” he said. We fundamentally are a people who are just chasing the freedom, like your values in the West.”

18d ago / 12:29 PM EDT

Massive explosions were heard in central Tehran moments ago. The exact location and cause of the blasts were not immediately clear.

The intelligence ministry is located in the area.

There has been no official confirmation of the strikes, potential damage or casualties.

18d ago / 11:46 AM EDT

07:45

In an interview with "Meet the Press," Rep. Ro Khanna, D-Calif., said that Ayatollah Ali Khamenei was a “brutal dictator” but Americans “are not safer today” following the strikes on Iran.

Pointing out Khamenei's advanced age, he said: “They were picking the new leader before we killed the ayatollah. The ayatollah was 86. The question is, is the country going to descend into civil war, are billions of our dollars going to be spent there, and are American troops going to be at risk?”

Khanna is seeking a vote under the War Powers Resolution, which would require the White House to seek authorization from Congress for more military action in Iran. He said a vote would be “close,” adding: “It depends if we can keep several Democrats in line.”

18d ago / 11:33 AM EDT

Iran’s Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi insisted that his country had the “inalienable right” to enrich uranium in Thursday’s meeting with U.S. special envoy Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner, a senior Trump administration official told NBC News.

The U.S. side laid out a proposal that would have stopped Iran from enriching uranium for 10 years, and that was the U.S. red line, the official said.

Araghchi told the U.S. delegation, “We have the inalienable right to enrich,” the official said, adding that Witkoff replied, “We have the inalienable right to stop you.”

The official said that the U.S. delegation also offered to give Iran fuel but Araghchi replied, “We don’t need any favors from you. We don’t want you to pay for our fuel.”

Show more

Kushner and Witkoff reported back to Trump on how poorly the negotiations had gone in Geneva and President Donald Trump was “nonplussed,” the official said.

Iran brought a seven-page document to the meeting in the Swiss city of Geneva that the American delegation asked if they could take back to Washington “and show it to everybody and analyze it,” the official said. “They wouldn’t give it to us.”

18d ago / 11:11 AM EDT

13:28

Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., told NBC News’ “Meet the Press” that it is not the United States’ job to pick Iran’s next leader and that the U.S. should not put boots on the ground after Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, was killed in a series of predawn strikes by U.S. and Israeli forces.

Pressed by moderator Kristen Welker on whether the U.S. has a plan to ensure that Iran’s future was determined by Iranians and that Iran would not be a major state sponsor of terrorism, Graham argued that it was not up to Americans.

“It’s not his job or my job to do this,” Graham said. “How many times do I have to tell you? Our job is to make sure Iran is no longer the largest state sponsor of terrorism, to help the people reconstruct a new government. No boots on the ground.”

Graham argued that it was in the United States' interest to ensure that Khamenei was dead. "It's in America's interest to make sure that Iran can no longer be the largest state sponsor of terrorism," Graham said.

Read the full story here.

18d ago / 11:04 AM EDT

Iran targeted the USS Abraham Lincoln, but the “missiles launched didn’t even come close,” U.S. Central Command said on X today.

Iran’s Revolutionary Guard Corps, the country’s most powerful military body, had earlier been quoted by the state-run Islamic Republic News Agency as saying that four ballistic missiles had targeted the ship.

CENTCOM said the Lincoln was continuing to launch aircraft.

18d ago / 11:00 AM EDT

This is an unprecedented situation in Iran. There have been only two supreme leaders. The first was Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, who took power after the revolution in 1979, and then came Ali Khamenei, who took over after his death 10 years later.

There is a complicated system to replace Khamenei. President Masoud Pezeshkian, Supreme Court Chief Justice Gholam-Hossein Mohseni-Ejei and Ayatollah Alireza Arafi, a member of a powerful constitutional watchdog, have formed a three-member transitional council to oversee the succession.

They have the powers of the supreme leader until what is described as the Guidance Council will select another leader.

But these are extraordinary circumstances, because we don’t know how many senior Iranian officials have been killed.

Show more

The Israelis say dozens of Iran’s top leaders have been killed, and they are still carrying out strikes on the country, presumably targeting more of them.

With the Iranian government and its military all being potential targets, that puts the leadership role in crisis.

18d ago / 10:52 AM EDT

Blasts could be seen engulfing parts of Tehran's Shahrak-e Gharb district this morning.

The upscale area is filled with apartment complexes and shopping centers, surrounded by mountains.

Provided to NBC News

Provided to NBC News

18d ago / 10:47 AM EDT

Iran has launched drone and missile strikes against Bahrain, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, and has threatened further retaliation.

This map shows the countries targeted.

18d ago / 10:20 AM EDT

The Israeli military has said it will initiate a new wave of strikes on the Iranian capital that will hit "the heart of Tehran."

18d ago / 10:07 AM EDT

Three U.S. service members were killed and five were seriously wounded as part of Operation Epic Fury, U.S. Central Command said today.

“Several others sustained minor shrapnel injuries and concussions — and are in the process of being returned to duty,” CENTCOM said in the update. “Major combat operations continue and our response effort is ongoing.”

The military did not identify the service members.

Earlier, CENTCOM announced that a Iranian Jamaran-class corvette was struck by U.S. forces as part of the operation. The ship was sinking to the bottom of the Gulf of Oman, the military said.

“As the President said, members of Iran’s armed forces, IRGC and police ‘must lay down your weapons.’ Abandon ship,” CENTCOM said.

Three U.S. service members killed in Operation Epic Fury, CENTCOM says

04:11

18d ago / 9:54 AM EDT

More than 150 students were killed and another 95 injured in a strike on a girls primary school in the southern Iranian town of Minab yesterday, the state-affiliated news agency Nour News reported, citing Ali Farhadi, a spokesperson for the Ministry of Education.

NBC News could not independently confirm the reported casualties.

According to Farhadi, three attacks were unleashed on the school, which had 264 students, the news agency reported.

The aftermath of an Israel strike on a school in Minab, Iran, on Saturday. Abbas Zakeri / Mehr News via Reuters

Footage from Reuters showed crews and rescue equipment digging at the site of the destroyed school overnight. Dust billowed as rescuers were going through mangled wreckage.

18d ago / 8:53 AM EDT

Iranian law requires new leader “must be determined as soon as possible,” according to a spokesperson for the country’s powerful Guardian Council, which includes theologians selected by the country's now deceased Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.

Women mourn the death of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei in Tehran this morning. Majid Saeedi / Getty Images

“Given the wartime conditions, this will take place at the earliest opportunity,” Hadi Tahan Nazif told Iranian state media outlet IRIB News today.

“The constitution has provisions for the current circumstances, and until a leader is appointed, the leadership council will assume responsibility,” he added.

18d ago / 8:25 AM EDT

Fresh strikes rocked cities across the Middle East today as Iran continued to retaliate for the U.S. and Israeli attack.

Authorities in Dubai confirmed that two people were injured when debris from intercepted drones fell into the courtyards of two homes.

Smoke rises from the site of a reported Iranian strike in Dubai today. Fadel Senna / AFP - Getty Images

Elsewhere, authorities in Abu Dhabi, the the capital of the United Arab Emirates, said a woman and her child were injured by debris falling from an intercepted drone onto one of the buildings of the Etihad Towers complex in the city.

Bahrain’s interior ministry also said the Crowne Plaza Manama hotel in the country’s capital was targeted, resulting in damage but no loss of life.

18d ago / 8:09 AM EDT

Iran’s strategy of attacking Gulf states in the Middle East is “bizarre” and likely to “backfire,” an analyst told NBC News.

“The strategy of the Iranians seems to be, ‘We’re going to attack U.S. allies in the region, not just U.S. bases,’” said H.A. Hellyer, a senior associate fellow at the Royal United Services Institute, a London-based think tank.

The point of doing this is to “provoke these allies to push the Americans to stand out,” he said in a telephone interview today.

But “this a really bizarre strategy,” he added, which only works as a threat. “Once you’ve already attacked,” he said, the bluff is over, and that could mean countries in the region lining up with the U.S. to stop getting attacked.

Show more

"I think that’s going to backfire quite bad," he said.

So far, Hellyer said, the regime appears to be intact despite President Donald Trump's calls for Iranians to overthrow their government amid the death of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.

“I think the system is fairly resilient at present,” he said. “You haven’t seen mass defections, you haven’t seen a complete breakdown in any in any shape or form.”

18d ago / 8:04 AM EDT

Democratic Sen. Chris Van Hollen D-Md. has accused President Donald Trump and Vice President JD Vance of lying to the American people after striking Iran yesterday.

"Do you remember all the times that Donald Trump and JD Vance looked the American people in the eye and said they would not drag America into a war?" he asked in a video posted to his YouTube channel.

"They lied," he added. "They lied directly to the American people."

Calling the attacks on Iran a "war of choice," Van Hollen said the conflict was putting American forces in danger, and that innocent civilians had been killed.

Show more

"What's the Trump plan?" he said. "To use military force against every regime in the world that we don't like?"

This approach will "make the world a more dangerous place for America," he added, calling the strikes, without approval from Congress, a "gross violation of the Constitution."

US Lawmakers React to Trump’s Iran Strikes

01:42

18d ago / 8:03 AM EDT

At least eight people people were killed and 28 were taken to hospital after missiles hit the Israeli city of Beit Shemesh, Israel’s emergency service, Magen David Adom, said on X.

Two of the injured were in serious condition, two in moderate condition and 24 in mild condition, it said.

Emergency services in Beit Shemesh today. Ahmad Gharabli / AFP - Getty Images

A Jerusalem Police spokesperson said a building in Beit Shemesh, which sits about 20 miles west of Jerusalem, suffered a direct hit and collapsed.

Victims of missile strike outside of Jerusalem were taking cover in bomb shelter

01:58

18d ago / 8:01 AM EDT

Overnight in Tel Aviv, there were many sirens, one every 40 or 50 minutes. Yesterday was quite intense too, with sirens sounding one after another over a few hours, keeping us in shelters for hours.

The scene of an overnight strike from an Iranian missile in Tel Aviv today. Alexi J. Rosenfeld / Getty Images

The loud explosions accompanying the moment of impact make it all especially scary. And I have to keep on working, and am managing to do one task in between sirens and plan what I’ll try to get through on the next break. It is very hectic!

According to Israeli media reports, around 20% of Israelis lack a proper in-house shelter, which makes public shelters very hectic.

18d ago / 7:53 AM EDT

Iran’s top security official, Ali Larijani, said today “a temporary leadership council will be formed in accordance with the constitution to carry out the duties assigned to it,” a day after the killing of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei at age 86 in airstrikes by Israel and the U.S.

He accused the United States and Israel of trying to plunder and disintegrate Iran and reminded them that “the people of Iran will not allow division of their country.”

18d ago / 7:45 AM EDT

Pope Leo XIV said today that he is following events in the Middle East with "deep concern" after U.S.-Israeli strikes on Iran and the retaliation that has followed.

“I address a heartfelt appeal to the parties involved to assume the moral responsibility to stop the spiral of violence before it becomes an irreparable abyss,” the pope said during his weekly address in St. Peter’s Square after a Sunday prayer.

Crowds mourn the death of Ayatollah Khamenei in Tehran today. Morteza Nikoubazl / NurPhoto via Getty Images

“Stability and peace are not built through mutual threats or through weapons," the pontiff added, "but only through reasonable, genuine and responsible dialogue."

18d ago / 7:31 AM EDT

Oren Ziv / DPA via Getty Images

Oren Ziv / DPA via Getty Images

Israeli first responders arrive at the scene of an Iranian ballistic missile strike in Tel Aviv late last night.

18d ago / 7:24 AM EDT

The government in Iran is under attack like never before.

Today tens of thousands of regime supporters packed into Tehran’s Revolution Square to mourn the late Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who was killed in a joint U.S. and Israel military operation.

They chanted "God is great!" while officials promised revenge. One said Iran would deliver “terrifying blows” to make the U.S. and Israel beg for mercy.

Supporters of Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei during a rally in Tehran today. Morteza Nikoubazl / NurPhoto via Getty Images

But others in Iran seemed to welcome the U.S. and Israeli strikes. As soon as the news broke last night that Khamenei was dead, young people in a city outside Tehran went out to dance in the streets.

Show more

Even in Tehran, where the government is hunting down the opposition after huge protests shook the clerical establishment earlier this year, some shouted "long live the shah" from the rooftops, a reference to Iran’s former king who was overthrown in 1979 during the Iranian Revolution.

For now, the Iranian government remains firmly in control and is lashing out in what it calls self-defense.

Iran launched attacks on American bases and allies in the Gulf, using drones to attack a building in Bahrain where the U.S. has a naval installation, hotels in Dubai, the airport in Kuwait and a U.S. base in Qatar.

But Iran’s main focus so far appears to be Israel, which Iran sees as the driving force behind this war.

18d ago / 7:22 AM EDT

Crowd topples Ayatollah monument in southern Iran

00:36

Eyewitness video shows a crowd in southern Iran toppling a monument dedicated to the Islamic Republic’s founder, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Khomeini’s successor, was killed at his compound in Tehran during a series of U.S. and Israeli airstrikes.

18d ago / 6:53 AM EDT

A fruit seller and father of two killed during his first protest. A biotechnology graduate with a passion for art who bled to death in her father’s arms. A distraught family ordered to pay morgue officials $7,000 for a loved one’s body unless they lie and say their relative died at the hands of anti-government rioters.

Videos showing body bags outside a medical facility in Tehran province were circulated on Jan. 11. Obtained by NBC News

These are a tiny fraction of the thousands of Iranians killed or wounded when the government cracked down in early January. With the nation still reeling, details about victims are trickling out and the world is gradually getting a clearer picture of the violence used to suppress the nationwide demonstrations.

Most of the killing happened during a two-day period between the night of Jan. 8 and Jan. 10, with over 7,000 people killed across the country, according to the U.S.-based Human Rights Activists News Agency.

Read the full story here.

18d ago / 6:44 AM EDT

Rep. Mike Lawler, R-N.Y., is calling for an end to the ongoing shutdown at the Department of Homeland Security amid the military action against Iran.

“Given the situation in the Middle East and the potential for Iran and its terrorist proxies to attempt some type of attack, it is imperative that @SenSchumer and @RepJeffries immediately drop all opposition to funding the Department of Homeland Security and pass the funding bill,” Lawler wrote on X.

A few other House Republicans concurred. Rep. Carlos Gimenez of Florida wrote“Agreed!” and Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart of Florida told Schumer on X, “don’t put our country at risk, fund DHS so they can do their job and thwart any possible attacks.”

DHS has been shut down since Feb. 14 as Democrats and Republicans remain divided over funding U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement following the fatal shootings of U.S. citizens in Minnesota.

18d ago / 6:37 AM EDT

For more than 70 years, the United States has had a complex and often hostile relationship with Iran.

In 1953, the CIA helped engineer a coup that toppled Iran’s democratically elected prime minister and put power firmly in the hands of its monarch, Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, who opened his country to American oil companies and aligned with the U.S. in the Cold War. But the shah ruled through repression, and in 1979 was overthrown in the Iranian Revolution.

Shah of Iran Mohammad Reza Pahlavi and President Jimmy Carter shake hands in the White House in 1977. Getty Images

Iran’s new supreme leader, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, branded the United States “the Great Satan,” while a group of radical Islamist students seized control of the American Embassy in Tehran and took 52 Americans hostage.

For 444 days, the U.S. was consumed by the hostage crisis, with the yellow ribbon at home becoming a symbol of the Americans held overseas.

Blindfolded hostages inside the U.S. Embassy compound in Tehran in 1979. Bettmann Archive

Jimmy Carter ordered U.S. special forces to rescue the hostages, but the mission ended in disaster, with U.S. aircraft colliding in the desert. A covert effort to extract six U.S. diplomats did succeed and was immortalized in the Oscar-winning Ben Affleck movie “Argo.” But the hostage crisis helped sink Carter’s presidency, and the hostages were finally released minutes after Ronald Reagan took the oath of office.

In the 1980s, the U.S. supported Saddam Hussein’s Iraq during a bloody eight-year war against Iran, while Iranian-backed militants targeted the U.S. Marine barracks in Beirut, Lebanon, killing 241 American service personnel.

Freed hostages welcomed back to the United States after 444 days. Express / Getty Images

Since then, the U.S. has branded Iran a state sponsor of terror.

After yesterday’s attack, a new chapter in this complicated relationship is being written in fire and smoke.

18d ago / 6:29 AM EDT

At least 150 tankers including crude and liquefied natural gas vessels dropped anchor in open Gulf waters beyond the Strait of Hormuz and dozens more were stationary on the other side of the chokepoint, shipping data showed today, after U.S and Israeli strikes on Iran plunged the region into a new war.

A tanker passes through the Strait of Hormuz in the northern emirate of Ras Al Khaimah on Wednesday. Fadel Senna / AFP - Getty Images

The tankers were clustered in open waters off the coasts of major Gulf oil producers including Iraq and Saudi Arabia as well as LNG giant Qatar, according to Reuters estimates based on ship-tracking data from the MarineTraffic platform.

18d ago / 6:28 AM EDT

The death of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei is a "defining moment" in Iran's history, E.U. foreign policy chief Kaja Kallas said in a post on X.

"What comes next is uncertain," Kallas said, adding that there is now "an open path to a different Iran, one that its people may have greater freedom to shape" and that she is working with partners in the Middle East to find "practical steps for de-escalation."

18d ago / 6:07 AM EDT

China called for an immediate ceasefire in Iran, with state media calling the U.S.-Israel attack “an undisguised assault on sovereignty.”

The strikes suggest the U.S. was not serious about talks it was undertaking with Iran on its nuclear program, Xinhua, China’s state-run news agency, said in a commentary. “Resorting to force at the very moment diplomacy shows promise sends a dangerous message: that might, not law, has the final say,” it said.

Trump’s call for Iranians to overthrow their government is “even more alarming,” Xinhua said: “Urging the overthrow of another government while conducting military strikes is not deterrence; it is an undisguised assault on sovereignty.”

Earlier, the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs called for an “immediate stop” to the attack and the resumption of dialogue. It also advised Chinese citizens in Israel to evacuate to safer areas within the country or leave for Egypt, and Chinese citizens in Iran to leave “as soon as possible.”

18d ago / 5:54 AM EDT

Through the early hours of the morning here, there have been explosions, some louder than others, as missiles and drones are intercepted by the air defenses across the United Arab Emirates and by the UAE air force.

Some debris has dropped into residential homes here in Dubai and in Abu Dhabi. The authorities say shrapnel from a drone that was intercepted by air defenses hit the facade of a building and caused minor injuries to a woman and a child, and also material damage.

There’s news now that the Iranians are again striking Riyadh in Saudi Arabia and have extended their strikes to Oman, which was mediating the talks between the U.S. and Iran. The Omani foreign minister had criticized the U.S.-Israeli strikes on Iran.

Damage to the Crowne Plaza hotel in Manama, Bahrain, following an Iranian strike on Sunday. Fadhel Madan / AFP - Getty Images

So these attacks by the Iranians appear to be more and more random, disparate and indiscriminate.

The aim appears to be to try and persuade governments in the Gulf to pressure Washington to stop its offensive, but in fact these attacks appear to be uniting Arab leaders. There was a call this weekend between the crown prince of Saudi Arabia and the president of the United Arab Emirates in which the Saudis pledged full support for the UAE.

So this scatter gun, almost machine gun, offensive by the Iranians seems to be backfiring.

18d ago / 5:50 AM EDT

Russian President Vladimir Putin expressed condolences to Iran's President Masoud Pezeshkian over the death of Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei, according to a statement on the Kremlin's website.

Khamenei will be remembered in Russia as an "outstanding statesman who made a huge personal contribution to the development of friendly Russian-Iranian relations," Putin said, describing Khamenei's death as a "cynical violation of all norms of human morality and international law."

The Kremlin has deepened its relationship with Iran since its invasion of Ukraine in 2022. Tehran has been accused by Kyiv of supplying Russia with drones that are being used in Ukraine.

18d ago / 5:42 AM EDT

Afghanistan said it was firing at Pakistani jets in Kabul after blasts and gunfire rocked the capital today, compounding instability in a region rattled by U.S.–Israeli strikes on Iran and retaliatory attacks on U.S. targets in Gulf states.

The Taliban-ruled state has suffered Pakistani strikes against government installations over the past week following accusations, which it denies, that it harbors militants.

The heaviest fighting in years between the neighbors has raised fears of a protracted conflict along their 1,615-mile border, with several countries including Qatar and Saudi Arabia calling for restraint and offering to help mediate a ceasefire.

Read the full story here.

18d ago / 5:42 AM EDT

Shia Muslim women march in protest today in the city of Srinagar in Indian Kashmir following the death of Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.

Sharafat Ali / Reuters

18d ago / 5:26 AM EDT

Iran unleashes attacks on multiple Arab countries

01:08

The United Arab Emirates said it has been targeted by hundreds of Iranian missiles and drones, making it one of several countries targeted by Iran in retaliation for joint Israeli and American strikes.

18d ago / 5:26 AM EDT

Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., launched a scathing attack on the United States' European allies last night, accusing them of weakness after European leaders urged diplomacy following the attacks on Iran.

"To our European friends, you’ve lost your way," he said in an interview with Fox News. "You’ve lost your sense of who you are and what makes you different. You’re pathetically weak."

European leaders yesterday urged Iran to seek a “negotiated solution” as they attempted to end the outbreak of war between the U.S., Israel and Iran through diplomatic means.

European Union foreign policy chief Kaja Kallas said the bloc was "coordinating closely with Arab partners to explore diplomatic paths."

Show more

But Graham said recommendations to negotiate with the Iranian regime were an "offense to the Iranian people."

"You seem to only care about your backyard," he said, addressing Europe, in reference to the war between Russia and Ukraine. "You make me sick when it comes to your values."

18d ago / 5:01 AM EDT

The Iran conflict is disrupting air travel around the world as ongoing airstrikes close some of the biggest airports in the Middle East and much of the region’s airspace remains empty.

Thousands of flights have been affected after retaliatory strikes by Iran hit key transit hubs, including in the United Arab Emirates cities of Abu Dhabi and Dubai, home to the world’s busiest international airport.

A plume of smoke rises from the port of Jebel Ali following a reported Iranian strike in Dubai today. Fadel Senna / AFP - Getty Images

As of early today, there was virtually no flight activity over Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Israel, Bahrain, the UAE and Qatar, maps from live flight tracker Flightradar24 showed. The effects of the flight disruptions are rippling far beyond the Middle East.

“It’s the sheer volume of people and the complexity,” U.K.-based aviation analyst John Strickland told Reuters. “It is not only customers, it is the crews and aircraft all over the place.”

18d ago / 4:46 AM EDT

Afghan refugees stranded at a U.S.-run camp in Qatar are “terrified” as Iran launches retaliatory strikes around them, a U.S. advocacy group said.

There are more than 1,100 people, mostly women and children, at Camp As Sayliyah, a former U.S. military base outside Doha for Afghan allies awaiting U.S. resettlement. Advocacy group AfghanEvac said it had received multiple recordings from residents showing missile interceptions in the skies above or near the camp.

“They do not have hardened bunkers. They are being told conditions are safe while watching active military activity unfold in the sky above them,” Shawn VanDiver, the group’s president, said in a statement.

Those at the camp include Afghan allies who worked with the U.S. military, as well as the immediate family members of U.S. military personnel, whose lives advocates say are at risk in Taliban-ruled Afghanistan. Though most of them have been approved for U.S. resettlement after extensive vetting, the Trump administration says it plans to shut down the camp in March without relocating them to the U.S.

Show more

The camp experienced similar terror last summer during a 12-day war between Israel and Iran that included U.S. strikes on three Iranian nuclear facilities. VanDiver called on the State Department to provide the camp’s residents with “adequate hardened shelter” and expedite their relocation to the U.S.

“These families stood with us. They trusted us,” he said. “They have already sacrificed enough.”

18d ago / 4:34 AM EDT

Inside President Trump’s decision to strike

02:06

After months of close coordination with Israel and weeks of direct negotiations with Iran, President Donald Trump ordered an attack on Iran.

Senior administration officials said the administration determined Iran's efforts to reconstitute its nuclear program after American strikes on nuclear sites last year, combined with Iran's refusal to discuss its ballistic missile program, constituted an "intolerable risk" to the U.S.

18d ago / 4:29 AM EDT

Vahid Salemi / AP

Atta Kenare / AFP via Getty Images

Atta Kenare / AFP - Getty Images

Atta Kenare / AFP - Getty Images

Plume of smokes rise from explosions in Tehran as residents watch from the rooftops this morning.

18d ago / 4:26 AM EDT

At least nine people have been killed in a protest outside the U.S. consulate in Pakistan’s port city of Karachi, a hospital and a medical transport charity said, as local police clashed with protesters trying to enter the premises.

The killing of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran’s hard-line supreme leader, has caused widespread outrage among members of the Shia Muslim community in neighboring Pakistan, who have held demonstrations across the country.

The largest protest was held in Karachi, home to about 20 million people, where protesters chanted slogans against the U.S. and Israel. Roads were closed to traffic as protesters threw stones at the U.S. consulate in the center of the city.

A police official in Karachi told NBC News that some protesters had managed to get past the main security gate, hundreds of yards away from the U.S. consulate building, but that they were removed by police.

Show more

Karachi’s Civil Hospital said it had received the bodies of nine people who had been killed at the protest and 35 people who were injured, all because of gunfire. Separately, the Edhi Foundation said it had transported nine bodies from the protest.

The government of Sindh province, where Karachi is the capital, condemned the violence and said it would “assess how the situation escalated and identify those responsible.”

Shia protesters also marched toward the U.S. Consulate in the city of Lahore, the capital of Pakistan’s Punjab province, but were dispersed, police said. The U.S. Embassy in Islamabad said in a post on X that it was monitoring the protests in Karachi and Lahore as well as calls for additional demonstrations elsewhere in the country.

18d ago / 4:10 AM EDT

Trump warned Iran not to “hit very hard” as it responds to U.S.-Israeli strikes, saying the U.S. would respond with even more force.

“Iran just stated that they are going to hit very hard today, harder than they have ever hit before,” he said on social media. “THEY BETTER NOT DO THAT, HOWEVER, BECAUSE IF THEY DO, WE WILL HIT THEM WITH A FORCE THAT HAS NEVER BEEN SEEN BEFORE!”

Mourners pay tribute to Khamenei in Tehran this morning. Majid Saeedi / Getty Images

Mohammad Bagher Qalibaf, Iran’s parliament speaker, said on state-run television that Iran would “get even with the Americans and Israelis.”

“Trump and Netanyahu have crossed a red line and will pay the price for it,” he said. “We will strike you with such painful blows that you will beg for mercy, you will see.”

18d ago / 4:09 AM EDT

The attack on Iran is an “illegal war of choice” that was not authorized by Congress, violates international law and was based on false claims by the Trump administration, a U.S. arms control group said.

There was no imminent threat from Iran, and the U.S.-Israeli attacks were “not justifiable on nonproliferation grounds,” the Washington-based Arms Control Association said in a statement.

“Trump and his aides have in recent days and hours claimed, without credible evidence, that Iran had restarted its nuclear program, had enough available nuclear material to build a bomb within days and was developing long-range missiles that could ‘soon’ be capable of hitting the United States,” the group said. “All three of these claims are false.”

Like the U.S.-Israeli attacks on Iran last summer, the group said, the attack this weekend came as U.S. and Iranian negotiators were making “significant progress” on a deal over Iran’s nuclear program. “The United States could have and should have negotiated in good faith with Iran to arrive at effective solutions,” it said.

18d ago / 4:07 AM EDT

K0--

Khamenei is dead, and as Tehran wakes up for the first time in 37 years without the supreme leader in charge, an NBC News producer on the ground in the Iranian capital captures the mood in the city.

Tehran is quiet.

It feels like everyone here is waiting, but no one knows what will come next, and people have not rushed to the streets to celebrate after the official announcement of Khamenei’s death this morning.

Businesses, schools and universities have shut down. The streets would normally be packed before Nowruz on March 20, Iran’s New Year's Day, but the mood is different this year.

Only in Enghelab Square in downtown Tehran, where Khamenei supporters are mourning the supreme leader, is there a large crowd. He did have his supporters, and his base is turning out, banging their chests and heads and crying for the loss of their religious leader. People started turning up from the moment the news was announced.

Many people still have access to the internet, thanks to virtual private networks, despite a widespread blackout. Everyone is posting on Instagram and sharing stories. We had internet glitches yesterday, but today everyone I know is connected and in touch with each other.

18d ago / 3:55 AM EDT

Majid Saeedi / Getty Images

Majid Saeedi / Getty Images

Atta Kenare / AFP - Getty Images

Majid Saeedi / Getty Images

Large crowds of mourners gathered in Enghelab Square in the center of the Iranian capital this morning after the killing of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, following the confirmation of his death in Iranian state media.

18d ago / 3:52 AM EDT

Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth praised the U.S. military’s strikes on Iran, calling “Operation Epic Fury” the “most lethal, most complex, and most-precision aerial operation in history.”

“The Iranian regime had their chance, yet refused to make a deal — and now they are suffering the consequences,” Hegseth said on X.“For almost fifty years, Iran has targeted and killed Americans, always seeking the world’s most powerful weapons to further their radical cause. Last night, unlike any previous president, President Trump began dealing with this cancer.”

He said the Defense Department “will not tolerate powerful missiles targeting the American people,” adding that the operation will destroy Iran’s missiles, missile production and its navy.

“As President Trump has said his entire life, Iran will never have a nuclear weapon,” Hegseth said.

“The United States did not start this conflict, but we will finish it. If you kill or threaten Americans anywhere in the world — as Iran has — then we will hunt you down, and we will kill you,” the post continued.

18d ago / 2:51 AM EDT

What comes next inside Iran?

01:53

Ayatollah Ali Khamenei was killed by a joint U.S. and Israeli attack, but succession plans are kept secret, and with uncertainty over how many of his potential successors were also killed, it remained unclear who will be Iran's supreme leader.

18d ago / 2:45 AM EDT

Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian declared Khamenei a martyr and vowed revenge for his killing.

The martyrdom declaration means 40 days of mourning, as previously announced by state-affiliated news, can begin to take place nationwide.

Pezeshkian praised Khamenei, the Middle East’s longest-serving head of state, for 37 years of leadership in the statement via the semiofficial news agency Nour News.

Khamenei “led the Islamic Revolution with wisdom and courage, carried the flag of the Islamic front, and with his strong faith created a new chapter in Islamic governance,” Pezeshkian said.

He vowed to avenge Khamenei’s death, saying those who took part in planning it will regret their participation.

Show more

“This great crime will not go unanswered and will create a new chapter in the history of the Islamic and Shia world,” he said. “The pure blood of this respected leader will rise like a flowing spring and will root out American-Zionist oppression and crime.”

Pezeshkian concluded: “With full strength and support from the Islamic nation and free people of the world, we will make the planners and perpetrators of this crime regret it.”

18d ago / 2:45 AM EDT

Iran’s supreme leader was killed in Israel’s opening strike against Iran during its part of the U.S. and Israeli offensive, according to the Israel’s defense minister.

Khamenei was killed alongside other senior leaders in Iran during Israel’s attack, dubbed “Roar of the Lion,” Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz said, according to a spokesperson who relayed his remarks.

He praised the Israel Defense Forces for what he characterized as their “brilliant execution.”

“Whoever acted to destroy Israel — was destroyed,” Katz said. “Justice has been served, and the axis of evil has suffered a crushing blow.”

Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian vowed to avenge the killing of Khamenei, which has set off a declaration of martyrdom and 40 days of national mourning in Iran.

Katz said Israel will defend itself. “We will continue to act with full force to defend the State of Israel,” he said.

18d ago / 2:45 AM EDT

18d ago / 2:45 AM EDT

Iranian state media confirms death of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei

02:34

Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who reigned as Iran’s supreme leader for the past 36 years, was killed in a sweeping U.S. and Israeli attack on the country Saturday. He was 86.

Trump announced his death on social media and state TV later confirmed it.

To Khamenei’s critics, he was a despot who consolidated power over nearly four decades, bolstered the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corp to become the most powerful military and economic force in the country, and clung to power in his final days with a brutal crackdown on anti-government protesters that killed thousands.

To his supporters, he will be revered as a martyr who stood up to the aggression of the U.S. and Israel, which he said should be wiped off the map.

His death leaves a nation that he ruled with an iron grip for decades unmoored, possibly heading to a period of great turmoil. Two opposing factions, the protesters pushing for greater freedom and the heavily armed security forces confronting them, are now vying for power while American and Israeli bombs continue to fall.

“Khamenei, one of the most evil people in History, is dead,” Trump posted Saturday on Truth Social.

Read the full story here.

0

NBC News