Gold import volume dips 18%, silver surges 56% - The Times of India | 2026-02-18: data released by the commerce department for April-Dec showed India’s gold import volume dipped 18.3% to 522 tonnes, even as the average year-on-year price of gold rose nearly 25% to $94,554 a kg; the higher unit value meant gold import value was still 1.8% higher at $49.4 billion. In contrast, silver imports surged 56% to 5,727 tonnes, with silver unit value soaring 46.7% to $1,357 a kg, and silver import value more than doubled to $7.8 billion from $3.4 billion in the nine-month period in 2024. The article said buyers became cautious because gold is seen more as an investment instrument, while silver has industrial use. ### Prediction markets won over Trump, but the rest of Washington will be harder | Semafor | 2026-02-18: Eleanor Mueller reported that prediction markets have won over the Trump administration, but “the rest of Washington” will be harder, as CFTC Chair Mike Selig asserted federal authority over Kalshi, Polymarket, and their cohorts and described them as more like derivatives exchanges than casinos. Republicans split: Sens. Bill Hagerty and Dave McCormick supported the move, while Utah Gov. Spencer Cox panned it; Sens. Mike Lee and Cindy Hyde-Smith had earlier raised concerns, and Sen. John Curtis joined Democrats on a September letter to the CFTC. Senate Agriculture Chair John Boozman said his panel “will be visiting with Selig” because this area “just caught fire,” calling it the “Wild West” and saying at some point it would need to be “cleaned up”; Selig said that label was unfairly attached by critics. Boozman said lawmakers had talked “to everyone involved — the tribes, the rest of the gambling world,” while trade groups sought language in a pending cryptocurrency bill that “reenforces existing law and prohibits gaming through CFTC-registered platforms.” Democrats’ unified line was that Selig’s actions are “at odds” with the law; Sen. Catherine Cortez Masto said, “The CFTC needs to follow its own rules, not make up new ones.” Selig had struck down a Biden-era rule banning sports or politics wagers and directed staff to draft an event contracts rulemaking. Center for Prediction Markets CEO Sean Patrick Maloney, a former House Democratic campaigns chief, said Washington was still figuring out how it feels and that his group was hiring Democratic advocates; Rep. Ritchie Torres proposed narrower rules targeting issues like insider trading. Boozman also wanted lawmakers to examine underage betting and sports betting, which dominates trading volume. States and tribes argued prediction markets fall under state and local jurisdiction under the Supreme Court’s 2018 sports-gambling ruling, while federal law allows CFTC limits on illegal activity, assassinations, terrorism, war, or games. Chad Beynon of Macquarie called it a states’ rights issue and compared it to AI’s push for federal preemption; he also said sports-book operators pushing into prediction markets were looking at a three-year payback, with plans not to go beyond 2028. The Trump family complicates the politics: Truth Social launched a prediction market with Crypto.com, Selig defended it Tuesday, and Donald Trump Jr. has invested in Polymarket and advises Kalshi. The CFTC has staffing cuts and four out of five commission seats empty, and a former CFTC chair told Politico the agency lacks the expertise or staff to police these markets; Selig also elaborated in a Wall Street Journal editorial. ### Liberty Global Agrees to Buy Out Vodafone Stake in Dutch JV - Bloomberg | 2026-02-18: Liberty Global agreed to buy out Vodafone Group Plc’s stake in VodafoneZiggo for €1 billion ($1.2 billion) in cash, then combine VodafoneZiggo with Liberty Global’s interest in Belgian telecom Telenet Group to form a new holding company, Ziggo Group. Vodafone will get 10% in Ziggo Group, while Liberty Global plans to list Ziggo Group in Amsterdam next year and spin off its entire 90% holding to shareholders. ### Liberty Global to buy Vodafone's stake in VodafoneZiggo, spin-off Benelux operations | Reuters | 2026-02-18: Reuters said Liberty Global has agreed to pay Vodafone 1 billion euros ($1.18 billion) in cash for its Dutch joint venture stake in VodafoneZiggo, then combine the Netherlands operator with Belgium’s Telenet and spin it out as enlarged Benelux telecoms company Ziggo Group, which Vodafone will retain 10% of and which is scheduled to list on Euronext in Amsterdam in 2027 subject to Liberty Global shareholders’ approval. In a separate Wednesday deal, Liberty Global, Telefonica and InfraVia said they would buy the UK’s second largest “altnet” fibre network Netomnia for 2 billion pounds ($2.7 billion), adding more than 3.4 million fibre premises and over 500,000 customers to their British footprint, which should reach 8 million premises with full fibre by the end of 2027, or 20 million premises including Virgin Media O2 high-speed cable customers, thereby challenging BT’s national Openreach network. Liberty Global shares rose 11.3% and Vodafone shares 4%; chairman and CEO Mike Fries said the Ziggo combination would create a regional powerhouse, and Vodafone CEO Margherita Della Valle said the deal delivered 1 billion euros cash plus the 10% Ziggo stake. The company also noted Vodafone and Liberty Global created VodafoneZiggo nearly a decade ago to compete with former monopoly KPN; the Reuters report was by Paul Sandle and Raechel Thankam Job and included exchange rates of $1 = 0.8447 euros and $1 = 0.7388 pounds. ### Canada's Carney edges closer to majority government as legislator defects to Liberals | Reuters | 2026-02-18: Prime Minister Mark Carney said Matt Jeneroux of the official opposition right-of-center Conservatives, who represents a constituency in Alberta, would sit with the ruling Liberals, moving the centrist Liberals to 169 seats in the 343-seat House of Commons, three short of a majority; three seats formerly occupied by Liberals are vacant, and if the party wins all three Carney would control the chamber. Carney said he needs a majority to react more effectively to U.S. President Donald Trump’s trade measures and tariffs, and said in an X post, “The world has changed, and Canada must change with it. This is a time to come together — and together, we will build a stronger future.” Jeneroux said he wanted to help tackle “unprecedented pressures” on Canadian prosperity and sovereignty. A majority would let Carney serve until April 2029, though he must formally announce special elections for the vacant seats; two are in Liberal strongholds and should be easy wins, while the third, in a Montreal suburb, is expected to be tighter. The defection was the third from the Conservatives to the Liberals in recent months and increased pressure on Pierre Poilievre, who survived a leadership review last month after losing the April 2025 election and accused Carney of seeking a majority through “dirty backroom deals” and J