OpenAI to buy Python toolmaker Astral to take on Anthropic | Reuters | 2026-03-19: OpenAI, the Microsoft-backed startup led by Sam Altman, said on Thursday it will acquire Astral, a major player in the Python community, to strengthen its portfolio against rival Anthropic and gain more share in the artificial intelligence coding tools market. The deal’s financial terms were not disclosed. OpenAI said Astral’s suite of developer tools will be brought into Codex, OpenAI’s AI coding system launched last year, and noted that OpenAI had already launched a desktop app for its coding tools earlier this year. The company said Codex has more than 2 million weekly active users, a three-fold increase in users and a five-fold jump in usage since the beginning of the year. Astral’s tools are designed to improve speed and reliability in Python development, and Astral founder and CEO Charlie Marsh said, “OpenAI will continue supporting our open-source tools after the deal closes.” Reuters reported by Jaspreet Singh in Bengaluru, edited by Shinjini Ganguli. ### Amazon acquires startup Rivr to test robots for 'doorstep delivery' | 2026-03-19: Amazon confirmed on Thursday that it has acquired Rivr, a Swiss robotics company formerly known as Swiss-Mile, which develops machines for “doorstep delivery.” Terms of the deal were not disclosed. Amazon quietly purchased the company earlier in the week and announced it in a notice sent to third-party delivery contractors, writing, “We want to share that we’ve recently acquired RIVR, a company focused on technology that can help with doorstep delivery,” and saying the technology could improve safety outcomes and the overall customer experience “particularly in the last steps of the delivery process.” Amazon said Rivr’s technology, including “a four-legged robot on wheels,” would be researched and field-tested to see how it could be integrated into delivery operations and help delivery associates carry packages from delivery vehicles to customer doorsteps. The Information was first to report the deal. Amazon said it relies on “thousands” of third-party contractors for the last mile portion of deliveries, and an Amazon spokesperson said the acquisition “reflects our commitment to a continued investment in research” and efforts to improve safety for delivery employees. Amazon previously invested through its $1 billion Industrial Innovation Fund, launched in 2022 to back warehouse and logistics technologies; Bezos Expeditions, the venture capital firm started by Amazon founder and executive chairman Jeff Bezos, also participated in Rivr’s $22 million seed round last March. Amazon Robotics was formed after Amazon acquired Kiva Systems for $775 million in 2012, and Amazon said in October that it had deployed more than 1 million robots across its operations network. ### Oil Prices Today: After Spiking to $119, How Much Higher Can They Go? | 2026-03-20: Barron’s ran this piece on March 20, 2026, with a headline referring to oil “After Spiking to $119,” and the article said oil prices rose again on Friday after spiking during the previous session. It tied the surge to the Iran war and illustrated the story with a Brandon Bell/Getty Images image credit. ### Oil could top record high if Iran war disruption persists: Goldman | 2026-03-20: Goldman warned that oil could top its record high if Iran war disruption persists, in a March 20, 2026 article whose visible text consisted of the headline and a teaser line: “A geopolitical fog has enveloped the stock market. Three things investors should do now.” ### Global oil price stuck in triple digits. Goldman Sachs says it may stay there for years | CNN Business | 2026-03-20: In this CNN Business article by John Liu, updated Mar 20, 2026, 10:13 AM ET and published Mar 20, 2026, 3:23 AM ET, from Hong Kong, oil prices dipped Friday but remained well above $100 amid the Iran war, with energy infrastructure in the Middle East damaged and the Strait of Hormuz still largely shut. Brent crude, the global oil benchmark, ticked down 0.1% to $108.5 a barrel after rising to $110 earlier in the day, while US crude was broadly flat at $95.6. Goldman Sachs said higher prices could last all the way through 2027 and noted “The persistence of several prior large supply shocks underscores the risk that oil prices may stay above $100 for longer in risk scenarios with lengthier disruptions and large persistent supply losses.” The article said the Israeli strike on Iran’s South Pars field triggered Iranian retaliation against Qatar’s Ras Laffan, the world’s largest liquefied natural gas facility, and that the Strait of Hormuz had been effectively closed for 19 days, choking off 20% of the world’s oil supply. A senior Iranian security source told CNN on Thursday that the strait “will not return to pre-war conditions.” Goldman warned Brent could exceed its all-time high, set in 2008, of around $147 per barrel if disruptions lengthened; in a worst-case scenario it estimated Brent around $111 per barrel by the fourth quarter of 2027 if oil supply through the strait remained very low for over two months and production stayed at 2 million barrels per day after reopening. In a more favorable case, gradual recovery in oil flows through the strait from April would ease Brent to the $70s by the fourth quarter of 2026. QatarEnergy said the missile attacks reduced liquefied natural gas export capacity by 17% and repairs could take up to five years. US gas prices rose another 3 cents a gallon overnight to $3.91 on average Friday, the highest average since October 13, 2022. The Trump administration was considering options to combat higher gasoline prices, including Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent’s suggestion to lift sanctions on Iranian oil already at sea, while the White House had ruled out a ban on crude oil and gas exports; the United States had committed to releasing more than 172 million barrels of crude from reserves under an emergency release agreed by 32 International Energy Agency member countries. Trump called for allies to reopen the Strait of Hormuz, and the UK sent a small deployment of military planners to work with the US on a “viable collective plan,” while other US partners were unlikely to send military assets amid active hostilities. ### Oil tops $112 after Iraq declares force majeure due to Iran war | 2026-03-20: Crude prices topped $112 on Friday after Iraq declared a force majeure at all oilfields operated by foreign companies and drones struck two refineries in Kuwait. Brent crude futures rose 3.26%, or $3.54, to close at $112.19 per barrel, while U.S. crude oil gained 2.27%, or $2.18, to settle at $98.32 per barrel. Iraq oil ministry sources told Reuters that Baghdad declared the force majeure because it cannot ship crude through the Strait of Hormuz, and tanker traffic through the strait had plunged due to attacks by Iran. Drones struck the Mina Al-Ahmadi and Mina Abdullah refineries in Kuwait on Thursday; the Mina Al-Ahmadi attack caused a fire in several units and a precautionary shutdown of some parts of the facility, according to the Kuwait Petroleum Corporation. Saudi oil officials, according to the Wall Street Journal, expected crude prices could climb above $180