White House says US Navy has not escorted tanker through Strait of Hormuz - AL-Monitor: The Middle Eastʼs leading independent news source since 2012, 2026-03-10: the White House said Tuesday that the United States has not escorted any oil tanker through the Strait of Hormuz after Energy Secretary Chris Wright’s social media account posted and then deleted a claim that it had; White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt said, “I can confirm that the US Navy has not escorted a tanker or a vessel at this time, though of course that's an option,” while Iran’s Revolutionary Guards called Wright’s claim a “pure falsehood” and said no US Navy vessel had “dared” approach the strait. An Energy Department spokesperson said “a video clip was deleted from Secretary Wright's official X account after it was determined to be incorrectly captioned by Department of Energy staff.” The deleted post had said the “US Navy successfully escorted an oil tanker through the Strait of Hormuz to ensure oil remains flowing to global markets,” causing oil prices to drop sharply before some losses were pared back after deletion. The article said at least 10 oil tankers in or near the Strait of Hormuz were struck, targeted or reported attacked between March 1 and 10, according to UK Maritime Trade Organisation (UKMTO), International Maritime Organization (IMO), and Iranian authorities; since the war launched on February 28, 2026, no US ships were confirmed to have escorted oil tankers in the waterway, though the Trump administration had offered reinsurance to shipping companies and the US Navy’s services to escort tankers. Nearly a fifth of global oil production passes through the Strait of Hormuz, Tehran vowed on Tuesday that none would be exported from the Gulf while the war is ongoing, and since March 2 more than 20 commercial vessels were detected crossing the strait, some with transponders switched off, versus a prewar daily average of 138 ships; crude had jumped 30 percent on Monday to nearly $120 per barrel before retreating, and Trump later hinted the war may end soon even as his defense secretary vowed a day later to carry out the “most intense day of strikes inside Iran.” ### Trump ally endorses Paxton over Cornyn as GOP Senate primary heads to high-stakes Texas runoff, 2026-03-10: Fox News reported that Rep. Eric Burlison, R-Mo., a member of the House Freedom Caucus, endorsed Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton for U.S. Senate against incumbent Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, in the Lone Star State’s GOP U.S. Senate primary runoff after neither top finisher won a majority. Burlison said Paxton was “a proven conservative fighter” who would “stop the Biden Border Crisis” and “fight for Texans’ rights against woke corporations and the Austin political establishment,” adding, “That’s why I’m proud to wholeheartedly endorse his campaign.” The article said President Donald Trump has said he plans to endorse one of the two men but has not chosen yet; Trump had endorsed Burlison for reelection in 2025, calling him a “warrior” for the MAGA movement. Trump’s March 2026 Truth Social post, shown in the article, said the Texas Republican primary race “cannot, for the good of the Party, and our Country, itself, be allowed to go on any longer. IT MUST STOP NOW!” and that the race should “TOTALLY FOCUS” on beating the “Radical Left Opponent”; he said, “Both John and Ken ran great races, but not good enough,” claimed his endorsements were “virtually insurmountable,” and said he would “be making my Endorsement soon” and ask the candidate he doesn’t endorse to “immediately DROP OUT OF THE RACE!” The article also noted Texas state Rep. James Talarico defeated U.S. Rep. Jasmine Crockett in the Texas Democratic U.S. Senate primary, and included photos of Trump meeting German Chancellor Friedrich Merz in the Oval Office on March 3, 2026, Paxton campaigning in Fort Worth on Feb. 28, 2026, and Burlison leaving a House Republican Conference meeting on June 4, 2025. ### Planning for Donald Trump’s April China trip to meet Xi Jinping in Beijing still scattershot | Semafor, Mar 9, 2026, 9:33pm EDT: Semafor said planning for US President Donald Trump’s state visit to China, scheduled for March 31-April 2, 2026, remained “scattershot” with barely three weeks to go and no final list of officials and executives joining him in Beijing. The visit was expected to build on a trade truce agreed to in October, when Trump last met Chinese leader Xi Jinping, and could be the first of four potential meetings between the pair this year; the article said the White House and Trump had also been focused on the US-Israel war in Iran and, before that, the operation to oust Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro. Arrangements are being handled jointly by the US Commerce Department and Treasury Department, and officials had not decided whether to include a business delegation, despite state-visit precedents such as German Chancellor Friedrich Merz bringing 30 executives and British Prime Minister Keir Starmer bringing almost 60 people spanning business, sports, and culture. A White House official said there was “no disagreement internally” about inviting CEOs, but no invited-company list had been compiled; two sources said officials were focused on promoting “managed trade,” the idea touted by US Trade Representative Jamieson Greer in which US and Chinese politicians negotiate purchases, prices, tariffs, delivery schedules and other details through bureaucratic channels. China has proposed a large fund, possibly involving sovereign wealth, to invest in American companies in batteries and EVs, but US officials have not engaged, and Chinese operational control over such a fund was described as a “non-starter.” Scott Kennedy, trustee chair in Chinese business and economics at the Center for Strategic and Economic Studies and a regular at Track II bilateral meetings, said China could aim for “over a trillion dollars” in total value from the fund plus big-ticket purchases such as Boeing aircraft, soybeans and LNG, while noting Japan has promised $550 billion in US investments and China will want to top that. Former US officials David Meale, now head of Eurasia Group’s China practice, and Ryan Hass, now a Brookings Institution strategy advisor, said the US has been “sluggish in doing its part to nail down deliverables” and that events in Iran and time pressures were squeezing ambition; the White House said considerations over which companies and sectors to prioritize were underway. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said at a press conference in Beijing on Sunday that he hoped 2026 would be a “landmark year” for US-China relations and urged both sides to “foster a suitable atmosphere, manage existing differences, and eliminate unnecessary distractions,” even as the article said China has leverage through rare earths and the US through technology needed for high-tech manufacturing. Notable side points included a South China Morning Post report that Trump would not leave Beijing during the visit due to security concerns, and Politico’s Phelim Kine reporting that Beijing appears to be prioritizing summit success over concern about US military operations targeting Chinese allies Venezuela and Iran. ### Russia denies giving Iran intelligence on US troops in Middle East, Witkoff says - ABC News, 2026