US and Chinese trade negotiators are slated to meet in mid-March, according to people familiar with the matter, in an effort to keep alive the planned summit between US President Donald Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping despite American strikes against Iran and the broader escalation. In the article titled “US, China trade chiefs to meet mid-March before Trump-Xi summit” published Mar 03, 2026, 01:20 PM and updated Mar 03, 2026, 03:29 PM, US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent and China’s Vice-Premier He Lifeng were expected to convene in Paris at the end of next week, with US Trade Representative Jamieson Greer also part of the broader economic talks. The article says timing and location could still shift, and that the agenda could include a possible Chinese purchase of Boeing Co planes, commitments to buy US soybeans, Taiwan, and the future of US fentanyl tariffs struck down by the Supreme Court. It says the Trump-Xi summit is set for Mr Trump to travel to China between March 31 to April 2, with Beijing not yet confirming those dates; the article also notes this would be the first trip by an American president since Mr Trump’s visit in 2017, when he got a private tour of Beijing’s Forbidden City. The meeting would be the first sit-down between high-level US and Chinese officials since the Supreme Court blew up Mr Trump’s global tariff strategy, forcing more complicated trade levies. It also recalls earlier talks in Geneva in May 2025, followed by London, Stockholm, Madrid and Kuala Lumpur, which produced a truce in which Washington and Beijing lowered tariffs and export restrictions, and mentions informal sideline talks at the World Economic Forum in Switzerland earlier in 2026. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi condemned the killing of Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei as “unacceptable to openly kill the leader of a sovereign country and institute regime change,” while the article notes tensions over US strikes on Iran and earlier US actions against Venezuela’s Nicolas Maduro. ### “Putin will convey Arab concerns to Iran about attacks on oil infrastructure, Kremlin says” published Mar 03, 2026, reports that Russian President Vladimir Putin will convey Arab leaders’ concerns to Iran about Tehran’s strikes on oil infrastructure in the region, after he held a flurry of phone calls on Monday with four Arab Gulf state leaders. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Putin would make “every effort” to ease tensions and would communicate his “deep concern” about attacks on infrastructure to Iranian colleagues, using Moscow’s dialogue with the Iranian leadership; Russia and Iran have a strategic partnership. The piece says oil prices rose on Tuesday for a third day as Iran responded to US and Israeli attacks with strikes against energy infrastructure in Gulf countries and against tankers in the Strait of Hormuz. Putin had already sent condolences to the family of Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei in a note to President Masoud Pezeshkian over the weekend, but the Kremlin had not publicized any further contact with senior Iranian leadership since the strikes began on Saturday. Peskov also said Putin had not spoken with US President Donald Trump and there were no plans for such a conversation at that time. ### “Iran, Middle East Conflict Clouds Merz-Trump Talks on Trade, Russia, Ukraine - Bloomberg” by Arne Delfs, published March 3, 2026 at 7:35 AM UTC, says the US-Israeli attack on Iran may prevent Friedrich Merz from achieving his two main goals in Tuesday’s talks with Donald Trump in Washington: getting more clarity on American trade policy and persuading the president to get tougher on Russia. It says the US Supreme Court’s ruling striking down Trump’s use of emergency tariff powers triggered fresh uncertainty for European companies exporting to the world’s biggest economy and called into question the EU-US trade pact sealed last year. ### “Trump’s Iran attack rattles Russian hardliners who call for Putin to double down on war in Ukraine” published March 3, 2026, says Russian hardliners who once hoped Trump’s unpredictability might benefit Moscow now see his attack on Iran as making him a growing threat to Russia itself, with some publicly demanding Moscow abandon U.S.-brokered peace talks with Ukraine and double down on fighting there. The article quotes nationalist tycoon Konstantin Malofeyev, who said “The unprincipled United States is a threat to the entire world” and added, “Yes, it wants a weak Europe. But it also wants a weak Russia.” War blogger Boris Rozhin, known as “Colonel Cassad” and with nearly 800,000 followers on Telegram, called Trump a “monster” driven mad by impunity and said counting on deals with it was “either foolishness or treason.” Prominent academic Andrei Sidorov told state TV Trump was “a dangerous man,” regretted that Trump survived an assassination attempt in July 2024 before being re-elected later that year, and said “practically nobody is able to stop him,” while noting Russia is “bogged down in Ukraine.” The Kremlin condemned US actions as “unprovoked aggression” but avoided criticizing Trump personally and offered no tangible material help to Iran beyond diplomatic support; it also said continuing Ukraine peace talks remained in Russia’s interest even as events in Iran created uncertainty about the timing and venue of the next round. Analysts noted Russia has imported, refined and started to manufacture its own Iranian-designed drones, but could not do much to help Tehran at this stage; Kirill Dmitriev, Putin’s special envoy, suggested rising oil prices and lower discounts on Russian oil sold to China and India could help Russia’s strained budget. Hawks said Ukraine might get fewer US arms and munitions, with air defence missiles sent to Gulf states instead, and pointed to the fate of Syria’s Bashar al-Assad, Venezuela’s Nicolas Maduro, Iran’s Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and long-time ally Cuba as evidence Trump was systematically taking out Moscow’s allies. Ultra-nationalist philosopher Alexander Dugin warned, “If Iran holds out, everything could go the other way. If it collapses, we’re next,” and said common ground with Trump disappeared as he distanced himself from the original MAGA ideology and moved closer to the neocons. ### “Trump rejects settling Iran war as Tehran nears decision on new leader” published by Reuters on March 3, 2026 says US President Donald Trump is “not interested in negotiating with Iran,” raising the possibility that the Iran war would end only once Tehran no longer has a functioning military and its leadership is completely wiped out. The report says Tehran was nearing a decision on a new leader at the time of his remarks. ### “Merz says he urged Trump to increase pressure on Putin” published March 3, 2026 reports that German Chancellor Friedrich Merz, after meeting Donald Trump in Washington, said he urged the president to increase pressure on Russian President Vladimir Putin over the war in Ukraine. Merz said “Russia is playing for time here, and in doing so is also acting against the will of the American president,” and insisted that the United States, Russia and Ukraine were taking part in trilateral talks aimed at securing a peace deal, but that only a pact supported by Europe could be lasting; “We are not prepared to accept an agreement that is negotiated over our heads,” he said. ### “Iran claims Hormuz Strait is closed, threatens to set shipping