Turkey’s Africa strategy conflicts with US foreign policy critics claim | Fox News | 2026-02-22: Turkey’s massive military, trade, Islamic diplomacy and education expansion into Africa is, analysts say, undermining U.S. goals as Ankara capitalizes on wars and conflicts on the continent. Turkey analyst Gönül Tol told an American Enterprise Institute seminar in Washington last week that Turkey is “really capitalizing on all these conflicts in Sudan, in Ethiopia, in Somalia, to strengthen its military presence, its diplomatic and economic engagements,” adding that Turkey is “one of the top, top weapons providers to Africa” and that “if there is more chaos, that will only help Erdogan strengthen his hands.” President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said in October that trade volume with Africa rose from “$5.4 billion in 2003” to “$41 billion in 2024,” and said Turkish Airlines was leading the way into African countries, now flying to “64 African destinations”; he also said relations had advanced “hand in hand, shoulder to shoulder, and most importantly, heart-to-heart.” The article says multiple reports claimed Turkish firms sold military drones to both sides in the three-year-long Sudan conflict, meaning the Sudanese Armed Forces (SAF) and the Rapid Support Forces (RSF), and that such sales would prolong the war and directly conflict with U.S. policy. A State Department spokesperson said “the U.S. is working with allies and others to bring an end to external military support to the parties, which is fueling the violence.” Mariam Wahba of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies said Turkish drones are marketed as cost-effective and politically low-friction alternatives to U.S. or European systems and that reporting about sales to SAF and RSF underscores Ankara’s “transactional approach.” FDD senior fellow Sinan Ciddi wrote in a 2025 report that “The deal between Baykar and SAF is worth $120 million, resulting in the sale of six TB2 drones, three ground control stations, and 600 warheads,” and claimed it took place after U.S. sanctions on such sales. The TB2 reportedly sold to the Sudanese government is made by a company said to be owned by Erdogan’s son-in-law and is described as one-sixth the cost of a U.S. Reaper drone; the Africa Command’s Africa Defense Forum said typical aircraft cost “between $2 million and $5 million per aircraft,” while total system packages can reach “$5–$15 million per system” depending on ground control stations, communication systems, and training, whereas TB2 operational costs are only “a few hundred dollars per hour.” Wahba said Turkey is trying to return to Ottoman principles in the Sahel, citing caliphates and strict Islamic law, and called it a “neo-Ottoman foreign policy” that “risks undermining U.S. interests.” The number of Turkish embassies in Africa has risen from “12 in 2002” to “44 today,” and Turkish Airlines’ “64 African destinations” was cited as a state-backed soft-power and access enabler. ### Xi Gains Leverage Before Trump Summit After Tariff Reversal - Bloomberg | 2026-02-22: Chinese President Xi Jinping is heading to the negotiating table with Donald Trump with a boost in bargaining power after the U.S. leader lost his ability to quickly raise tariffs for nearly any reason. ### Gilead Sciences to Acquire Arcellx to Maximize Long-Term Potential of Anito-cel – Company Announcement - FT.com | 2026-02-22: Gilead Sciences Inc. and Arcellx Inc. announced a definitive agreement in which Gilead will acquire Arcellx for “$115 per share in cash at closing and one contingent value right of $5 per share,” for an implied equity value of “$7.8 billion.” The target is anitocabtagene autoleucel, or anito-cel, an investigational BCMA-directed CAR T-cell therapy for adult patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma; the BLA for anito-cel was accepted by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and has an anticipated PDUFA action date of “December 23, 2026.” The deal builds on a 2022 collaboration between Kite, a Gilead company, and Arcellx, and gives Gilead full control of anito-cel, eliminating profit-share, milestones, and royalties. The merger is anticipated to close during the second quarter of 2026, subject to regulatory approvals and the tender of shares equal to at least a majority of Arcellx’s outstanding stock; Gilead currently owns approximately “11.5 percent” of Arcellx’s outstanding common stock. The CVR pays an additional “$5 per CVR” if cumulative global net sales of anito-cel reach at least “$6.0 billion from launch through year-end 2029.” Daniel O’Day said the deal reflects conviction in anito-cel’s potential and that it could become a foundational treatment for multiple myeloma in earlier lines of therapy, while Arcellx CEO Rami Elghandour highlighted the D-Domain platform and its potential impact on patients and clinicians. BofA Securities and Morgan Stanley advised Gilead, Centerview advised Arcellx, Ropes & Gray was Gilead’s legal counsel, Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati was Arcellx’s legal counsel, and Ravens Sub, Inc. will commence the tender offer. ### Samsung is adding Perplexity to Galaxy AI | The Verge | 2026-02-22: Samsung said Galaxy S26 users will be able to call on Perplexity by saying “hey, Plex,” as part of a “multi-agent ecosystem.” Perplexity will have access to Samsung Notes, Clock, Gallery, Reminder, and Calendar, plus select third-party apps, though Samsung did not name those apps. The company said the goal is to let users choose among different AI agents for different tasks, alongside Bixby and Gemini, and to differentiate Samsung from Apple and Google. Samsung said people can develop strong attachments to particular AIs and that the next Samsung Unpacked event on “February 25, 2026” would reveal more about its multi-agent vision. ### This Week in AI: Google’s Record-Breaking Gemini, OpenAI’s $730B Empire, and the Race Nobody Can Afford to Lose | by Yuki | Feb, 2026 | Medium | 2026-02-22: The piece says “Gemini 3.1 Pro” now in preview turned Google’s model into an adaptive reasoning engine with three compute tiers and a “Deep Think Mini” high setting; it scored “77.1% on ARC-AGI-2,” more than doubling its predecessor’s “31.1%,” and outperformed Claude 4.6 and GPT-5.2 on that benchmark, while also posting “68.5%” on Terminal-Bench 2.0 and “69.2%” on MCP Atlas. Google also introduced CI Fixer for Jules, an SWE agent that diagnoses and patches CI failures, and Lyria 3 in the Gemini app, which generates “30-second” music tracks from text, images, or video with SynthID watermarks; Google said its AI-driven safeguards blocked “1.75 million malicious apps” from the Play Store in 2025. The article says