Iran regime could be gone in a year: Quantum Strategy's David Roche, 2026-02-27, said in a late-February 2026 interview that Iran’s current regime “could be gone in a year,” while also saying he does not see Tehran conceding to U.S. demands to limit its nuclear program because Iran views those demands as “a threat to national sovereignty.” Roche was identified as being of Quantum Strategy, and the central claim paired regime instability with refusal to accept nuclear restrictions; the article’s key factual test points are the timeframe “within a year,” the refusal to “conced[e] to U.S. demands,” and the sovereignty framing. ### Ukraine claws back southern territory as Russia’s war enters fifth year, 2026-02-27, reported on Ukraine marking the fourth anniversary of Russia’s invasion with gains in southern Ukraine, improved air defences that “kept the lights on in Kyiv,” and two drone-and-missile barrages in the past week. President Volodymyr Zelenskyy told AFP Ukrainian forces had regained “300 square kilometres (115 square miles)” of territory in southern Ukraine, without specifying the time period, while commander in chief Oleksandr Syrskii said two days later the gains were “400sq km (155 square miles)” and had come “since the end of January.” Zelenskyy said, “You can’t say that we’re losing the war … The question is whether we will win,” and later on the anniversary said Vladimir Putin “understands he is not capable of defeating Ukraine on the battlefield” and that Russia’s “second army in the world” is fighting “apartment buildings and power plants.” The Institute for the Study of War said Ukraine’s successes were aided by persuading Starlink to disconnect illegal Russian terminals and by the Kremlin partly disabling Telegram, both used by Russian troops for essential communications. The article said limited Ukrainian counterattacks may have disrupted Russian preparations for a spring offensive, and noted open-source intelligence suggesting Russia’s campaign has been flagging for a long time; European leaders said over the past three years Russia seized “1.5 percent of Ukraine or less” at a cost of “hundreds of thousands of lives.” The battle for Pokrovsk in Donetsk appeared to have ended in a Russian victory after two years for a town with a pre-war population of “60,000,” but the ISW said Pokrovsk “had long ceased to be an operationally significant town” by the time Russia intensified its push in “Winter 2025,” after Russian strikes denied Ukraine full logistics use as early as “July 2025.” Russia launched “just more than 1,500 drones and at least 90 missiles” during the week; on Sunday it launched “197 drones and 50 missiles,” with Ukraine downing all but “26 drones and 31 missiles,” and on Thursday Russia launched “420 drones and 39 missiles,” of which Ukraine neutralised “90 percent of the drones and 30 missiles.” Defence ministry adviser Serhiy Beskrestnov said the ballistics being used are “made at the end of 2025 – the beginning of 2026,” effectively “missiles from the factory.” Ukraine’s Air Force said it had destroyed “3,855 long-range missiles” and “67,000 long-range drones” since the start of the war. On “February 21” Ukrainian-made FP-5 “Flamingo” missiles struck the Votkinsk missile factory in Russia’s Udmurtia, “about 1,200km (745 miles)” from the border, in what Fabian Hoffman called “the first time that Ukraine has successfully struck a core target of Russia’s missile industry directly using a heavy missile capability,” and the General Staff said the plant makes ballistic missiles including the “Oreshnik” intermediate ballistic missile stationed in Belarus and used to threaten Europe; satellite imagery later showed at least one machine-building plant struck, though interior damage remained uncertain. On the same day Ukrainian drones struck the Neftogorsk Gas Processing Plant in Samara, damaging two gas condensate stabilisation plants; on Monday Ukraine struck the Kaleykino Oil Pumping Station in Tatarstan, a key facility for filling the Druzhba pipeline to Hungary and Slovakia; and on Wednesday Ukraine struck a chemicals plant in Smolensk, causing explosions and fires. The article said Russia occupies “20 percent” of Ukraine’s territory on the fourth anniversary, while Zelenskyy praised Ukraine’s rise from being given body armour to producing “more than three million” first-person-view drones a year, with European Commission president Ursula Von Der Leyen and European Council president Antonio Costa standing beside him; the EU has sent “195 billion euros ($230bn) to date” and voted to send another “90 billion euros ($106bn) over the next two years.” ### How Russia-Ukraine Peace Talks Are at Impasse Over Donbas and Other Territory - Bloomberg, 2026-02-27 at 9:46 AM UTC, said Russia’s war in Ukraine had “entered its fifth year” and that, despite President Donald Trump’s claim he could swiftly end the conflict upon returning to office, more than a year of U.S. efforts to negotiate peace had failed to break the impasse over Ukraine’s occupied lands. The core dispute was Russia’s “maximalist stance” of wanting the part of the eastern Donetsk region it has not been able to capture, a demand Ukraine rejected; a U.S. proposal to turn the area into a “free economic zone” as a buffer had yet to win either side over. ### Zoetis to Acquire Animal Genomics Business from Neogen®, Accelerating Precision Animal Health Innovation – Company Announcement - FT.com, 2026-02-27, noted a Mar 02 2026 12:00 GMT company announcement from PARSIPPANY, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Mar. 2, 2026 in which Zoetis Inc. (NYSE: ZTS) entered into a definitive agreement with Neogen Corporation (NASDAQ: NEOG) to acquire Neogen’s animal genomics business for “$160 million, subject to customary closing adjustments.” Zoetis said the deal strengthens its leadership in Precision Animal Health and aligns with its strategy to drive future livestock innovation through genomics, integrating Neogen’s genomic technologies and data solutions to expand predictive insights, individualized care, and value across major livestock and companion animal species. Neogen’s genomics business serves customers in “more than 120 countries” through five labs in the “United States, Brazil, Australia, China and the United Kingdom,” plus an office in “Canada,” and is a leader in “U.S. beef and dairy genomics,” using fixed array and sequencing technologies and software solutions. Jamie Brannan, Zoetis chief commercial officer, said the acquisition strengthens the company’s commitment to advancing animal health through innovation, data, and technology. Zoetis expected to complete the acquisition in the “second half of calendar year 2026,” subject to regulatory requirements; the company said it has a legacy of “nearly 75 years,” supports veterinarians, livestock producers and pet owners in “over 100 countries,” and that Neogen is present in “over 140 countries” across Food Safety, Livestock, and Pet Health & Wellness. ### Paramount to buy Warner Bros Discovery in $110 billion deal as Netflix bows out of race | Reuters, 2026-02-27, reported Warner Bros Discovery (W