Reuters, 2026-03-04, “U.S., Kurds discuss potential Iran military operation, sources say”: Iranian Kurdish militias have in recent days consulted with the United States about whether and how to attack Iran’s security forces in the western part of the country, according to three sources with knowledge of the matter. The coalition is based along the Iran-Iraq border in the semiautonomous region of Iraqi Kurdistan, has been training for such an attack, and hopes to weaken Iran’s military while the United States and Israel pound Iranian targets with bombs and missiles. The stated goal, two sources said, would be to create room for Iranians opposed to the Islamic regime to rise up now that Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei and other top officials “have been killed since the U.S.-Israeli attack began on Saturday.” A final decision had not yet been made on the operation or its timing. The groups requested U.S. military support, leaders in Erbil and Baghdad had also been in touch with the Trump administration, and the forces were in talks with the United States about CIA help to provide weapons, though Reuters could not confirm the extent of CIA involvement, whether weapons had been facilitated, or whether any U.S. forces planned to go into Iran with the Kurdish groups. The CIA declined comment, as did the White House and Pentagon; the Kurdish Regional Government also did not immediately respond. Reuters noted any such operation from Iraq would likely require significant U.S. military and intelligence support, that the two U.S. bases in Erbil have supported the coalition fighting Islamic State militants, and that Kurdish groups in Iraqi Kurdistan have a long history of working with the U.S. in the Iraq War and the battle against ISIS but have sometimes strained ties with Washington because of shifting allegiances and ideologies. CNN had first reported the CIA’s involvement and potential ground operation, Axios said President Trump held a telephone call with two top Iraqi Kurdistan leaders, and a CNN source said the plan would be for Kurdish armed forces to take on Iranian security forces to make it easier for an uprising of unarmed Iranians in the cities. The piece warned an armed uprising by Iranian Kurds could destabilize Iran further and could fuel an armed separatist movement among the Baluch minority, which keeps close ties with separatists in Pakistan’s Baluchistan; Turkey was also described as unlikely to be sympathetic to arming Kurdish groups near its borders, given its stance toward the SDF and the PKK. ### USA TODAY, 2026-03-04, “USA TODAY - Breaking News and Latest News Today”: this roundup listed several separate items: “Can Trump deport migrants coming from dangerous conditions? SCOTUS to weigh in”; “Family calls war ‘uncalled for’ after US airman killed: Iran updates”; “The best (and worst) Oscar moments, from Conan to ‘Sinners’”; “Trump’s reveal of congressman’s terminal diagnosis causes awkward moment”; “Democrats refer Kristi Noem to DOJ for investigation into perjury”; “5 tips to start your March Madness bracket”; and “When is Amazon’s Big Spring sale? Get dates + deals here.” The notable specifics were that the United States Supreme Court was to weigh in on whether President Donald Trump could deport migrants coming from dangerous conditions; Iran had issued updates after a U.S. airman’s death; the Oscar coverage mentioned Conan O’Brien and the film “Sinners”; Trump’s reveal of a congressman’s terminal diagnosis caused an awkward moment; Democrats referred South Dakota Governor Kristi Noem to the U.S. Department of Justice over a perjury investigation; and Amazon’s “Big Spring sale” dates and deals were being highlighted. ### Reuters, 2026-03-04, “US stocks close up on Iran diplomacy hopes; tech leads rebound”: U.S. stocks closed up on Wednesday after a news report that Iran had signaled openness to talks and President Donald Trump pledged to steady oil markets, easing investor anxiety about a Mideast clash; technology led the rebound. ### Reuters, 2026-03-04, “Pakistan offers to host peace talks to end US-Israeli war on Iran”: Pakistan’s prime minister said he was willing to host talks between the United States and Iran to end the war, a day after President Donald Trump postponed threats to bomb Iranian power plants after what he called “productive” talks. The report’s image caption noted emergency personnel working at the scene of an Iranian missile strike in Tel Aviv. ### Reuters, 2026-03-04, “US sinks Iranian warship; NATO downs Iran missile headed into Turkish airspace”: new explosions rang out in Tehran as Mojtaba Khamenei, son of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, emerged as a successor to his assassinated father as Iran’s supreme leader. The article said the United States sank an Iranian warship and NATO downed an Iranian missile that was headed into Turkish airspace. ### Reuters, 2026-03-04, same title “US sinks Iranian warship; NATO downs Iran missile headed into Turkish airspace”: the same report emphasized the dual military actions against Iran, the missile’s heading into Turkish airspace, and Mojtaba Khamenei’s succession after the assassination of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. ### Reuters, 2026-03-04, “Trump threatened to ‘obliterate’ Iran’s power plants if Tehran does not fully reopen the Strait of Hormuz within 48 hours. Three weeks in, Iran war escalates beyond Trump’s control. Iran attacks near Israeli nuclear site, fires long-range missiles for first time. How Iran’s IRGC rebooted Lebanon’s Hezbollah to be ready for war. Trump’s mixed messages”: this Reuters world-news item said Trump threatened to “obliterate” Iran’s power plants if Tehran did not fully reopen the Strait of Hormuz within “48 hours,” while the Iran war was already “three weeks” in and had escalated beyond Trump’s control. It also said Iran attacked near an Israeli nuclear site and fired long-range missiles for the first time, and that the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) had “rebooted” Lebanon’s Hezbollah to prepare for war. ### ABC News, 2026-03-04, “US military assists Ecuador in 1st land operation against cartels: Source”: the United States and Ecuador carried out a joint military operation against “designated terrorist organizations in Ecuador,” but the U.S. role was limited to advising Ecuadorian troops and the Americans did not participate in the actual ground operation. U.S. Southern Command announced the mission on Tuesday, said it was a powerful example of partners in Latin America and the Caribbean combatting narco-terrorism, and noted the operation had the Trump administration’s distinction as the first time the U.S. military worked in a land operation in its fight against Latin American drug cartels; before this, it had only carried out airstrikes targeting drug-smuggling boats in the Eastern Pacific and Caribbean. U.S. military advisors in Ecuador provided planning, intelligence, and operational support; Ecuadorian forces carried out the ground and airlift operation; SOUTHCOM gave no details but released a video that appeared to show Ecuadorian forces and aircraft. ### Semafor, 2026-03-04, “US, Ecuador launch joint action against cartels”: the U.S. and Ecuador launched joint military action against cartels, marking a major escalation of Washington’s regional campaign against drug trafficking. Since the start of President Donald Trump’s