PBS News Hour, 2026-02-26, “U.S.-Iran talks end without deal, mediator reports progress”: in Geneva, the U.S. and Iran concluded a third round of negotiations with no formal agreement, but the mediator said progress was made; Iranian officials said technical talks would begin on Monday with the UN nuclear watchdog, and the report said this suggested “some possible progress” as the United States was deploying “the largest military presence to the Middle East in more than 20 years.” Stephanie Sy reported. ### CBS News, 2026-02-26, “Can the U.S. and Iran reach a nuclear deal to avert a war? - CBS News”: amid anxiety over possible strikes against Iran, negotiations brokered by Oman in Switzerland focused on Iran’s nuclear program; Omani Foreign Minister Badr Albusaidi told “Face the Nation” moderator Margaret Brennan that “substantial progress” had been made and a “peace deal is within our reach,” while President Donald Trump said earlier Friday he was “not happy” with the pace. The article said Trump had threatened to attack Iran, that the U.S. had ordered the “biggest American military buildup in the Middle East in decades,” and that the State Department authorized non-emergency personnel and their family members to leave Israel on Friday for unspecified “safety risks.” It recounted Trump’s 2026 State of the Union claim that the U.S. “obliterated Iran’s nuclear weapons program” with strikes in June, a claim the U.N. nuclear watchdog agency, the IAEA, had cast doubt on, and said Secretary of State Marco Rubio reiterated Iran was not currently enriching uranium but was trying to get to the point where it could. Abbas Araghchi said Iran “under no circumstances ever develop a nuclear weapon,” but also insisted “Enrichment is our right,” citing NPT rights and saying teams from both sides would soon work with the IAEA “to develop a framework for addressing some technical issues,” with “the fourth round of negotiations next week.” The story quoted Sanam Vakil of Chatham House saying war looked “inevitable” and “imminent,” Masih Alinejad warning that a deal leaving enrichment facilities and missiles intact would be a “total failure,” and H.R. McMaster saying Trump would not accept concessions replicating the flaws of the Obama-era 2015 Iran Nuclear Deal. It also noted the USS Gerald R. Ford at Souda Bay off Crete on Feb. 23, 2026, Araghchi’s warning that a U.S. attack would be “an act of aggression” answered by strikes on American bases in the region, and Omani mediation “creative and positive ideas” with talks resuming later after a break. ### Reuters, 2026-02-26, “US-Iran talks end with no deal but potential signs of progress”: Reuters said the United States and Iran made progress on Thursday over Tehran’s nuclear program, but hours of negotiation ended with no breakthrough that could avert potential U.S. strikes amid a massive military buildup. Omani Foreign Minister Sayyid Badr Albusaidi said on X that technical-level discussions would take place next week in Vienna after consultations in the capitals; he was also due to hold talks in Washington on Friday with U.S. Vice President JD Vance and other officials. The indirect talks in Geneva involved Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araqchi and U.S. envoys Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner, with one session in the morning and a second in the afternoon; Araqchi said, “We reached agreement on some issues, and there are differences regarding some other issues,” and that the next round would take place “in less than a week.” Reuters said the U.S. wants Iran to give up all uranium enrichment, while Iran demanded lifting of U.S. sanctions and recognition of its right to enrich uranium; a senior Iranian official suggested a framework was possible if Washington separated “nuclear and non-nuclear issues.” The piece also said Rubio called Iran’s refusal to discuss ballistic missiles a “big problem,” Trump had warned on Feb. 19 that Iran must make a deal in “10 to 15 days” or “really bad things” would happen, the U.S. and Israel hit Iranian nuclear sites in June, and President Masoud Pezeshkian said Khamenei had banned weapons of mass destruction, meaning Tehran “won’t develop nuclear weapons,” a reference to a religious decree from the early 2000s. ### AP News, 2026-02-26, “Iran has options if America attacks”: Sam Metz wrote from Jerusalem that as U.S. forces mass in the Middle East, Iran faced major strikes by the world’s most powerful military, potentially targeting leaders, military, nuclear sites and critical infrastructure, but could still inflict “considerable pain” on American forces and allies; Israel estimated Iran still had “hundreds of missiles” capable of hitting Israel, while Iran had a larger arsenal of shorter-range missiles for U.S. bases in Gulf countries and offshore American forces, soon to be joined by a second aircraft carrier. Iran threatened to close the Strait of Hormuz and said it had partially done so during drills last week; Khamenei warned Iran could sink American warships, and U.N. ambassador Amir Saeid Iravani said “all bases, facilities and assets of the hostile force in the region” would be legitimate targets. The report said Israel’s strikes during the “12-day war in June” and U.S. strikes on Iran’s main nuclear sites “obliterated” them, though the extent of damage and rebuilding remained unclear; Iran was negotiating to buy China’s YJ-12 sea-skimming missiles, with the outline finalized after last year’s war but no missiles delivered. It said Trump called Khamenei an “easy target,” Iran had eight months to learn from mistakes, and experts including Danny Citrinowicz, Nate Swanson, and others debated retaliation, succession, and the risk that radioactive material could be released if nuclear sites were widely struck. ### AP News, 2026-02-26, “US and Iran wrap up latest talks as the risk of war looms”: AP said in Geneva that Iran and the United States held hours of indirect negotiations Thursday over Tehran’s nuclear program but walked away without a deal, leaving the danger of another Mideast war on the table as the U.S. gathered “a massive fleet of aircraft and warships” in the region. Oman’s Foreign Minister Badr al-Busaidi, who mediated, said there had been “significant progress in the negotiation,” though Iranian state television reported Tehran was determined to continue enriching uranium, rejected proposals to transfer it abroad, and sought lifting of international sanctions. The article said Trump wants Iran to stop enrichment entirely, roll back its long-range missile program, and end support for armed groups like Hamas and Hezbollah, while Iran says it will only discuss nuclear issues and insists its program is peaceful. It named Steve Witkoff, Trump’s son-in-law Jared Kushner, and Abbas Araghchi as participants, said technical talks would continue next week in Vienna at the IAEA’s home, and quoted Araghchi saying the talks were “some of the country’s ‘most intense and longest rounds of negotiations.’” It also said Iran would consider U.S. bases in the region legitimate targets if attacked, that Iran had blocked IAEA inspectors from bombed sites, that satellite photos showed activity at two sites, that uranium