IRGC says Iran in ‘complete control’ of Strait of Hormuz amid Trump threats | Oil and Gas News | Al Jazeera, 2026-03-04: Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) said it has “complete control” of the Strait of Hormuz, with IRGC Navy official Mohammad Akbarzadeh stating, “Currently, the Strait of Hormuz is under the complete control of the Islamic Republic’s Navy.” The article says about a fifth of the world’s oil is shipped through the narrow strait; Reuters reported a rare voyage by the tanker Pola, which switched off its AIS tracker late on Monday as it approached the strait and reappeared on Tuesday off Abu Dhabi en route to a United Arab Emirates port to load crude. Al Jazeera’s Tohid Asadi in Tehran said the IRGC claimed it was “impossible for any ships to pass through” and said more than 10 oil tankers were targeted. Clarksons Research estimated about 3,200 ships, or about 4 percent of global ship tonnage, were idle in the Gulf, including about 1,230 that likely operate only within the Gulf, and about 500 ships, or 1 percent of global tonnage, were “waiting” outside the Gulf in ports off the coast of the UAE and Oman, per The Associated Press. Brent crude rose to more than $82 a barrel, up more than 13 percent since the start of the conflict and the highest since July 2024. Donald Trump posted on Truth Social on Tuesday that the US Navy would begin escorting tankers through the Strait of Hormuz “as soon as possible,” adding, “No matter what, the United States will ensure the FREE FLOW of ENERGY to the WORLD,” and “The United States’ ECONOMIC and MILITARY MIGHT is the GREATEST ON EARTH — More actions to come.” Pakistan’s Ministry of Energy said in a Wednesday press release that Islamabad asked Saudi Arabia to route oil supplies through the Red Sea port of Yanbu after the Strait closure disrupted shipping; Saudi sources assured security of supplies through Yanbu, one vessel was arranged to sail there to lift crude for Pakistan, and Riyadh reaffirmed support for Pakistan’s emergency energy needs. Petroleum Minister Ali Pervaiz Malik said most of Pakistan’s energy imports transit Hormuz and the government was monitoring continuity of supplies. ### The Iran war has effectively closed the Strait of Hormuz : NPR, 2026-03-04: NPR said the effective closure of the Strait of Hormuz, through which about 20% of the world’s crude oil and natural gas and about 20 million barrels of oil per day typically passes, was “about as wrong as things could go” for global oil markets, quoting Kevin Book of Clearview Energy Partners. Traffic faded in the first few days of the conflict as Iran declared the strait closed and attacked some ships; global crude prices rose more than 10% since the U.S. and Israel attacked Iran, while natural gas prices in Europe and Asia, which rely heavily on imported LNG, rose even more sharply. Recent attacks hit oil and gas infrastructure in Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the UAE, raising questions about alternate routes, and Iraq had to shut down production in some of its largest oil fields because it had nowhere to put the oil. Helima Croft of RBC Capital Markets called it “the biggest energy crisis since the oil embargo in the 1970s,” and said Iran achieved the shutdown not with mines or anti-ship missiles but with “several drone strikes in the vicinity of the Strait of Hormuz,” making insurers and shipping companies decide it was unsafe to traverse the “very narrow S-curve” of the waterway; she called it an “insurance-driven shutdown” and said it had caught the White House off guard. Trump on Tuesday said the U.S. government would provide naval escorts and that the U.S. Development Finance Corporation, or DFC, would provide reasonably priced “political risk insurance” to all shipping lines operating in the Gulf; the DFC said it was “ready to mobilize” its products in the Middle East. William Henagan of the Council on Foreign Relations said the DFC faces legal requirements, including environmental and social standards and operating in specified countries, and financial limits because it has a finite budget and cannot feasibly insure “all maritime trade”; he said subsidized prices still may not work because “it’s a war zone. Certain boats are going to sink.” Stamatis Tsantanis, chairman and CEO of Seanergy Maritime and United Maritime, called the escorts and insurance a “welcome step” but said normal traffic won’t resume until companies are confident the trip is “genuinely safe,” stressing protection of seafarers, vessel value, and avoiding a “major environmental disaster.” ### Gulf shipping crisis deepens as tankers stranded for fifth day, US sinks Iranian warship | Reuters, 2026-03-04: Reuters said the U.S.–Iran war widened on Wednesday after a U.S. submarine strike hit an Iranian warship off Sri Lanka, deepening a crisis that had paralysed shipping through the Strait of Hormuz for a fifth day and choked off Middle East oil and gas flows. Trump had pledged to provide insurance and navy escorts to ships exporting oil and gas from the Middle East. Reuters estimated at least 200 ships, including oil and LNG tankers and cargo ships, remained at anchor in open waters off Iraq, Saudi Arabia and Qatar, with hundreds more outside Hormuz unable to reach ports; at least eight vessels had been hit since the conflict began on Saturday. The Maltese-flagged container ship Safeen Prestige was damaged by a projectile while sailing toward the northern end of the strait, prompting the crew to abandon ship, and the Marshall Islands crude tanker Libra Trader and Panama-flagged bulker Gold Oak suffered minor damage 7-10 nautical miles off Fujairah. QatarEnergy declared force majeure on LNG shipments and Qatar would fully shut down gas liquefaction on Wednesday and not return to normal production and exports for at least a month; Iraq cut oil production because it ran out of storage and could not load tankers, while Saudi Arabia, the UAE and Kuwait struggled to load oil. A rare tanker transit still occurred: the Suezmax tanker Pola sailed through Hormuz on Tuesday to the UAE to load crude, after switching off its AIS transponder late on March 2 and reappearing the next day off Abu Dhabi. Trump said on Tuesday he had instructed the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation to provide political-risk insurance and financial guarantees for maritime trade in the Gulf, writing, “No matter what, the United States will ensure the free flow of energy to the world.” Commercial war risk insurance costs had risen at least five-fold. Oil prices dipped on Wednesday but were up 12% since the war started on Saturday, and Goldman Sachs raised its second-quarter Brent forecast by $10 to $76 a barrel and its WTI prediction by $9 to $71, citing longer-than-expected disruption through Hormuz and damage to production facilities that could also drive large declines in OECD inventories and Middle East production in March. Jakob Larsen, chief safety and security officer at BIMCO, said protecting all tankers in threatened areas was unrealistic because it would require a very high number of warships and other military assets. India’s Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals and Petronet LNG issued force majeure notices; Asia sources 60% of its oil from