“There Are Many Signs” Iran Supreme Leader Khamenei Is Dead, Says Netanyahu, 2026-02-28: Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said after hours of joint Israel-US strikes on Iran, including Tehran, that “there are many signs” Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei had been killed, declaring, “This morning, in a powerful surprise strike, the compound of the tyrant Ali Khamenei was destroyed in the heart of Tehran... and there are many signs that this tyrant is no longer alive,” while also saying the campaign would last “as long as necessary.” The article said Israel’s Channel 12, citing unnamed Israeli sources, reported “growing indications” the 86-year-old leader had been killed; Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Aragchi told NBC News Khamenei was alive “As far as I know,” and Iranian Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Esmail Baghaei told ABC News he was “safe and sound,” adding, “the system is working because it is very sophisticated and based on a popular revolution,” and that “Our armed forces are conducting their defensive action against this act of aggression.” The strikes began Saturday morning and hit areas around Khamenei’s offices, which had reportedly been evacuated to a secure location; a New York Times satellite photo showed damage to Khamenei’s compound in Tehran, also his official residence, and Channel 12’s Amit Segal said “Thirty bombs were dropped on the complex. Ali Khamenei was underground, but probably not in his own bunker.” The story also framed the moment as possible regime change: Netanyahu urged “the Iranian people in all their diversity - Persians, Kurds, Azeris, Balochs, Abkhazians, and all other citizens of this wonderful nation” to “establish a new and free Iran,” saying “Help has arrived,” while Donald Trump told “the great, proud people of Iran” that “the hour of your freedom is at hand,” to “Stay sheltered. Don’t leave your home,” and “When we are finished, take over your government. It will be yours to take. This will be, probably, your only chance for generations.” Khamenei, who took over from Ruhollah Khomeini in 1989, had ruled for 36 years, using the Iranian Revolutionary Guards and other paramilitary forces to curb dissent; recent pressures included the weakening of Hamas and Hezbollah, the toppling of Bashar al-Assad in Syria, and massive protests against economic hardship that erupted in December and peaked in January, brutally repressed. The article recalled a June war last year in which Israel and the US launched strikes that led to a 12-day war, and said the latest strikes could be the final nail in his coffin. ### Netanyahu says “there are many signs” Iranian supreme leader is “no longer with us” | CNN, 2026-02-28: CNN’s brief report said Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said on Saturday evening that “there are many signs” Iran’s supreme leader is “no longer with us,” but he stopped short of saying definitively that he was killed. ### Breaking News, Latest News and Videos | CNN, 2026-02-28: CNN’s one-line live update said “Trump admin, Israel indicate Iran fighting will continue for weeks.” ### Iran’s supreme leader is killed. What happens now? : Sources & Methods : NPR, 2026-02-28: NPR’s special episode, hosted by Mary Louise Kelly from Tel Aviv with national security correspondent Greg Myre and international correspondent Daniel Estrin, opened by saying “Ayatollah Ali Khamenei is dead, Iran’s supreme leader since 1989, killed today by an Israeli strike,” amid a joint Israeli and U.S. operation that began that morning in the Middle East. Estrin said the opening attack by Israel with the U.S. was a surprise blitz that targeted senior Iranian defense officials, with “three different gatherings simultaneously” struck; early reports said Khamenei and Iran’s president Masoud Pezeshkian had been hit, and by evening Israel had confirmed a “whole host of top officials killed,” including Ali Shamkhani, the personal adviser to the supreme leader, the commander of the Revolutionary Guards, Iran’s defense minister, a senior intelligence officer, and others tied to Iran’s nuclear weapons program. He said there was “No update on [Pezeshkian’s] status at all.” Myre said the strikes happened on what was effectively Monday morning in Iran, because “Saturday is the first day of the workweek in Iran,” and that the Israelis had apparently found the officials in separate meetings. He explained that in normal times Iran’s “Assembly of Experts,” “88 Islamic jurists,” would choose a new leader, but this was not normal; he said power might fall quickly to the security forces and Revolutionary Guards, citing Reuters reporting that the CIA’s best thinking was the Revolutionary Guards or some elements of it would take over. Myre said a U.S. ground war was “very, very unlikely,” noting U.S. ground troops in the region were only about “10 or 20%” of what the U.S. had in Iraq. Estrin said Israel announced the “largest aerial operation, the largest air force operation in Israeli history,” with “around 200 fighter jets,” and a person briefed on the campaign expected “another couple of days of intense strikes in Iran and retaliatory strikes in Israel as well,” meaning Sunday and Monday “at least.” Trump’s message from Mar-a-Lago was quoted in full: “To the great, proud people of Iran, I say tonight that the hour of your freedom is at hand. Stay sheltered. Don’t leave your home. It’s very dangerous outside. Bombs will be dropping everywhere. When we are finished, take over your government. It will be yours to take. This will be probably your only chance for generations.” Myre said that “Sounds like regime change,” adding Trump had said for a decade he didn’t want “forever wars” and yet was choosing “the country right between” Iraq and Afghanistan. The program also aired on-the-ground testimony: a 30-something man in Tehran, identified as “V,” heard “loud noises and then the explosions” and saw one from his office window “around the middle of the city, downtown Tehran,” and a 22-year-old student said, “I am ready to be killed by a bomb if it means the certain death of even a few of our regime officials.” Estrin noted Iran had struck back at “seven countries” and that the “Strait of Hormuz has been closed,” calling it a strategic waterway crucial to world oil trade; he also said Dubai International Airport in the UAE had been hit, a building near him in Tel Aviv had been struck causing serious injuries, and “a young woman in her 40s” was reportedly killed. ### Iranian state media confirms Supreme Leader Khamenei is dead, 2026-02-28: Iranian state media confirmed that Iranian Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei was killed in an Israeli strike Saturday as part of a “massive joint military operation” between the U.S. and Israel. The Iranian government announced “40 days of public mourning” after the “martyrdom” of the “86-year-old ayatollah,” who had ruled for “over 36 years.” President Trump celebrated on Truth Social, calling Khamenei “one of the most evil people in History”