UK forces join 'regional defensive operations' as US, Israel strike Iran | Reuters | 2026-02-28: Reuters said in LONDON that on Saturday, Feb 28, 2026, British Prime Minister Keir Starmer said UK forces and planes were participating in “coordinated regional defensive operations” to protect “our people, our interests and our allies,” in line with international law, while explicitly not joining the U.S. and Israeli strikes against Iran; he posted the video statement on X after a COBRA emergency meeting and calls with his French and German counterparts. Starmer said Britain had stepped up protections for British bases and personnel “to their highest level,” that Iran must never develop nuclear weapons, and that “the regime in Iran is utterly abhorrent”; he warned it was crucial to prevent wider regional escalation and said Iran could end the conflict by refraining from further strikes, giving up weapons programmes, and stopping “the appalling violence and repression against the Iranian people,” who “deserve the right to determine their own future.” The report said the U.S. and Israeli strikes targeted Iran’s top leaders and that Donald Trump said the attacks would end a U.S. security threat and give Iranians a chance to topple their rulers; Starmer also issued a notice advising against all travel to Israel and the Palestinian territories while urging citizens to seek shelter in Gulf states, after moving embassy staff from Tel Aviv to another location in Israel on Friday, Feb 27, 2026. Reuters by Sam Tabahriti; editing by Aidan Lewis and Sharon Singleton. ### Germany, France and UK tell Iran to stop attacks in region | Reuters | 2026-02-28: In BERLIN on Feb 28, 2026, Germany, France and Britain jointly condemned “Iranian attacks on countries in the region in the strongest terms,” with French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Friedrich Merz and British Prime Minister Keir Starmer calling for a resumption of negotiations and urging the Iranian leadership to seek a negotiated solution, while saying the Iranian people must be allowed to determine their future. They said they had consistently urged Iran to end its nuclear programme, curb its ballistic missile program, refrain from destabilizing activity in the region, and cease “appalling violence and repression against its own people,” and added that their countries did not participate in the Saturday strikes; they said they were in close contact with international partners including the U.S., Israel, and partners in the region, and reiterated commitment to regional stability and protection of civilian life. ### USA TODAY - Breaking News and Latest News Today | 2026-02-28: This USA TODAY breaking-news feed on Feb 28, 2026, featured a legal headline, “Can Trump deport migrants coming from dangerous conditions? SCOTUS to weigh in,” plus other prominent items including Democrats referring Kristi Noem to the DOJ for investigation into perjury, an awkward moment after Trump revealed Rep. Neal Dunn’s terminal diagnosis, “Oklahoma, San Diego State lead March Madness snubs,” a Costco recall of a pre-made meal kit over a salmonella risk, a drone attack igniting a fuel tank fire at Dubai airport, an Amazon Big Spring sale item, Susie Wiles being diagnosed with breast cancer, Timothée Chalamet Oscars/ballet-opera controversy, Michael B. Jordan at In-N-Out with an Oscar, and the headline “President Trump says US could soon reach deal with Cuba.” ### Reuters | Breaking International News & Views | 2026-02-28: Reuters’ brief live item said Iranian sources reported that Mojtaba Khamenei, the son of Iran’s late Supreme Leader, had survived the U.S. and Israeli air strikes on Iran. ### U.S., Israel Begin 'Major Combat Operations' in Iran as Trump Calls for Regime Change | 2026-02-28: In this article, Trump announced in an early-Saturday Truth Social video that the U.S. military had begun “major combat operations in Iran,” naming the campaign Operation Epic Fury, saying the objective was to defend Americans by eliminating “imminent threats” from the Iranian regime. He cited the 1979 hostage crisis, the 1983 bombing of the U.S. Marine barracks in Lebanon by Hezbollah, proxy attacks on U.S. forces in the Middle East, and the Hamas-led Oct. 7, 2023 attack on Israel; he also referenced Iran’s nuclear program, demanded that the IRGC, Iran’s armed forces and police “lay down your weapons and have complete immunity or, in the alternative, face certain death,” and told Iranians to stay safe during the bombing and then “take over your government.” He told The Washington Post just after 4 a.m. Saturday that his main concern was “freedom” for the Iranian people and that he wanted a safe nation. Israel’s Defense Minister Israel Katz called the Israeli attack “a pre-emptive attack against Iran to remove threats to the State of Israel,” and an Israeli defense official said the operation had been planned for months with Washington and the launch date set weeks ago. The report said an Iranian state media account claimed nearly 60 girls were killed in an Israeli airstrike on a girls’ school in Minab, while Iran responded with ballistic missile barrages against Israel; Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said Iran would target all U.S. bases in the region, posting on X that its armed forces were prepared and showing a 2012 Trump post. Fars reported attacks on U.S. bases in Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Bahrain; explosions were reported in Doha, Abu Dhabi and Iraq; Kuwait, Jordan and the UAE said they intercepted missiles, with the UAE reporting debris caused “one civilian death of an Asian nationality” and material damage. Bahrain said a missile attack struck the U.S. Navy’s 5th Fleet at Naval Support Activity in Bahrain, while Trump, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth and Gen. Dan Caine monitored events from Mar-a-Lago. The article said the strikes would continue for several days, that senior U.S. and Israeli officials were targeted, that Iranian Defense Minister Amir Nasirzadeh and IRGC commander Mohammed Pakpour were reportedly killed but not officially confirmed, and that Araghchi told NBC News from Tehran around 5:30 p.m. local time that Khamenei was still alive “as far as I know.” Araghchi called regime change in Iran “mission impossible,” said Tehran was targeting U.S. bases but not Americans at home, and expressed willingness to resume dialogue to de-escalate. ### Iran is on 'death ground' amid existential threat from US attacks and could 'go big' in retaliation | Fortune | 2026-02-28: Fortune, by Jason Ma and published Feb 28, 2026 at 12:17 PM ET, said a former NATO commander warned Iran was on “death ground” amid an existential threat from U.S. attacks and might “go big” in retaliation; the article noted explosions from interceptions by Israel’s Iron Dome missile defence system over Tel Aviv on Feb 28, 2026, with image credit to Jack Guez / AFP via Getty Images, and framed the conflict as a response to U.S.-Israeli airstrikes. ### Iran's Ayatollah Ali Khamenei is killed in Israeli strike, ending 36-year iron rule | 2026-02-28: Updated Sunday, March 1, 2026 •