Reza Pahlavi: 'Iran's Prosperity Project': Tehran's exiled crown prince Reza Pahlavi unveils democratic transition plan after Khamenei’s death - The Times of India, 2026-03-01: Iran’s exiled crown prince Reza Pahlavi reacted to the announced death of Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei after joint US-Israeli military strikes, praising US President Donald Trump for “decisive action” and posting on X that “Ali Khamenei, the bloodthirsty despot of our time… has been erased from the face of history” and that “the Islamic Republic has in effect reached its end and will very soon be consigned to the dustbin of history.” He unveiled the “Iran Prosperity Project,” a roadmap for a democratic transition calling for a referendum to draft and ratify a new constitution, then internationally supervised elections, after which the transitional government would dissolve. He warned that any attempt by the remnants of the regime to appoint a successor would fail, said any new leader would lack legitimacy and inherit the crimes of the outgoing regime, and urged military, law enforcement and security forces to help ensure a stable transition to a free and prosperous Iran. In a Washington Post op-ed he described the Islamic Republic as expansionist and oppressive, accused it of subverting regional sovereignty, pursuing nuclear weapons and committing mass atrocities at home, and cited the reported massacre of “over 30,000 protesters in January 2026.” He called for unity among monarchists, republicans, liberals, leftists, and religious and ethnic minorities around four principles: territorial integrity, individual liberties, separation of religion and state, and the people’s right to choose their government. He also proposed the “Cyrus Accords,” inspired by Cyrus the Great, to replace hostility with diplomatic and economic cooperation, including recognition of Israel, and said a free Iran could become a pillar of stability and prosperity in the Middle East. The piece also notes Pahlavi’s biography: eldest son of Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, last Shah overthrown in the 1979 revolution; formally named crown prince in 1967; born in Tehran in 1960; left Iran in 1978 for US military training; earned a degree in political science from the University of Southern California; and declared himself Shah in exile after his father’s death in 1980. It also mentions Iran attacks US military bases across the Middle East in operation “Truthful Promise 4,” and that Trump declared “the hour of your freedom is at hand” for Iranians. ### Reuters, 2026-03-01: “The U.S.-Israeli attacks have left Iran grappling to rebuild its leadership in its biggest test in five decades even as Tehran struck Israel and the United Arab Emirates, killing several people.” The report’s core point is that US-Israeli attacks left Iran trying to rebuild its leadership while Iran retaliated by striking Israel and the UAE, causing deaths, in what Reuters described as Iran’s biggest test in “five decades.” ### Venezuela’s opposition leader Machado says she will return to country | AP News, 2026-03-01: Venezuelan opposition leader and winner of the 2025 Nobel Peace Prize María Corina Machado said on Sunday that she will return to Venezuela in the coming weeks and that elections will be held in the South American country. She did not set a date but said one objective is to prepare “for a new and gigantic electoral victory,” and in a social media message urged supporters to “strengthen the unity of Venezuelans that began with the primaries,” referring to the 2023 process in which she won the vote to be a single opposition candidate against former President Nicolás Maduro. Acting President Delcy Rodríguez, in power since Maduro and his wife were captured in a U.S. military operation in January, warned Machado “will have to answer” if she returns. U.S. Secretary of State Marco Rubio said change in Venezuela must go through phases of stabilization, economic recovery and transition, and he has not indicated elections could be held in the short term. The article notes Machado is 58, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize last year for her fight for democratic transition in Venezuela, later presented her medal to Donald Trump after the military intervention that deposited Maduro, and that Maduro now faces drug-trafficking-related charges in U.S. courts and has pleaded not guilty. It also recalls the July 2024 elections, where protests erupted after Maduro was declared the victor, the opposition said it had credible evidence that Edmundo González was the real winner, and González replaced Machado after she was barred from participating. ### Opposition leader Maria Corina Machado says she will return to Venezuela in coming weeks | Reuters, 2026-03-01: Reuters reported from Miami that Machado said via social media on Sunday that she plans to return to the country in the coming weeks. It identifies her as a 58-year-old industrial engineer who left Venezuela in December for Oslo to receive the Nobel Peace Prize and is currently in the United States. The report says speculation about her return intensified after the U.S. captured former Venezuelan leader Nicolas Maduro on January 3, and that she is under investigation in Venezuela while Interim President Delcy Rodriguez said she should have to “answer to Venezuela” for her support of U.S. military action against Caracas. The byline is Sarah Kinosian and editing by Bill Berkrot. ### Venezuela’s opposition leader Machado says she will return to the country in the coming weeks - The Washington Post, 2026-03-01: The Washington Post, published 2026-03-01 and attributed to Associated Press from Caracas, said María Corina Machado, the 2025 Nobel Peace Prize winner, would return to Venezuela in the coming weeks and that elections will be held in the South American country; she did not set a date and said she aimed to prepare “for a new and gigantic electoral victory.” ### Opposition leader Machado says she will return to Venezuela in the coming weeks | PBS News, 2026-03-01: PBS/AP reiterated that Machado will return to Venezuela in the coming weeks and that elections will be held, with the same “new and gigantic electoral victory” phrasing. It adds the primaries reference, Delcy Rodríguez’s warning, Marco Rubio’s stabilization-economic recovery-transition framework, Machado’s Nobel Prize for democratic transition, her medal presentation to Donald Trump, Maduro’s drug-trafficking-related U.S. charges, and the July 2024 election aftermath. ### Watch This Weekend: Iran Confirms Supreme Leader's Death - Bloomberg, 2026-03-01: Bloomberg said Iran has officially confirmed the death of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei amid escalating military strikes and rising global tensions, and that Iran is entering a “40-day period of national mourning” as the Middle East braces for a pivotal geopolitical moment. The Bloomberg reporters named are David Gura, Christina Ruffini and Lisa Mateo. ### Reuters, 2026-03-01: Reuters reported that a strike on an Iranian girls’ school that killed scores of children may have resulted from US use of outdated targeting data, with two sources saying this could rank among the worst civilian-casualty cases in decades of US conflicts. ### Breaking News, World News and Video from Al Jazeera, 2026-03-01: Al Jazeera’s roundup said Israel bombs Iran and Lebanon; Trump said the war would last “4 weeks or longer,” and later “4 to 5 weeks” and