Interim leadership in Iran named after Ali Khamenei's death | 2026-03-01: Iranian state television said on X on Sunday that, after the U.S. and Israel’s joint strike killed Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, an interim leadership council had been formed including Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian, Guardian Council jurist member Ayatollah Alireza Arafi, and head of the Iranian judiciary Gholam-Hossein Mohseni-Eje’i. The article says the U.S. and Israel launched strikes against Iran on Saturday after weeks of tension, and Iran retaliated by attacking Israel and Gulf states including Saudi Arabia and Qatar. President Trump announced Saturday afternoon on Truth Social that Khamenei was dead, writing, “Khamenei, one of the most evil people in History, is dead,” and calling the killing “Justice for the people of Iran, but for all Great Americans, and those people from many Countries throughout the World, that have been killed or mutilated by Khamenei and his gang of bloodthirsty THUGS.” Iranian state media later confirmed the death. The AP reported that under Iranian law the 88-member Assembly of Experts “must” pick a new supreme leader “as soon as possible.” The State Department on Saturday urged Americans to “exercise increased caution” after “the launch of U.S. combat operations in Iran,” telling Americans worldwide, especially in the Middle East, to follow the latest security alerts from the nearest U.S. embassy or consulate. ### Who’s running Iran now that the supreme leader is dead? | 2026-03-01 | CNN: CNN said the killing of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei by the United States and Israel created a power vacuum at the core of the Iranian regime and began a difficult succession process. The Islamic Republic has replaced its supreme leader only once since it came to power nearly half a century ago; Khamenei, who succeeded Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini in 1989, was killed without an officially declared heir. On Sunday, a three-person council formed to hold power until a successor is chosen, consisting under Iran’s constitution of the moderate president Masoud Pezeshkian, the hard-line head of the judiciary Gholamhossein Mohseni Ejei, and senior cleric Alireza Arafi. The powerful parliament speaker Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf said the regime had “prepared ourselves for these moments” and “planned for all scenarios,” adding that “an unimaginable power and cohesion will take shape” with the council. The report said Israel claimed a “majority” of Iran’s senior military leaders were killed in Saturday’s strikes, including armed forces chief of staff Maj. Gen. Abdolrahim Mousavi, IRGC commander Maj. Gen. Mohammad Pakpour, and Defense Council secretary Ali Shamkhani. It explained that the 88-member Assembly of Experts will select the successor, while the Guardian Council, a separate body of 12 jurists, vets candidates and oversees parliament; the Guardian Council barred over 600 applicants, including all women and senior figures such as Ali Larijani, ahead of the 2021 presidential election. Contenders named included Khamenei’s second son Mojtaba, seen as linked to the IRGC and Basij; Alireza Arafi, who is deputy chairman of the Assembly of Experts, a Guardian Council member, and head of Iran’s seminary system; Mohammad Mehdi Mirbagheri; and Hassan Khomeini, grandson of Khomeini. Donald Trump urged Iranians on Truth Social to overthrow their government, saying, “When we are finished, take over your government. It will be yours to take,” and called on the IRGC to lay down its weapons or “face certain death.” Reza Pahlavi, eldest son of the deposed shah and long based in the United States, emerged as a potential next leader, though David Petraeus said there is no “Ahmed al-Sharaa figure” in Iran like Syria’s 2024 anti-Assad force, and Robin Wright compared the opposition’s lack of infrastructure to South Africa’s African National Congress. The report said power would likely be exercised behind the scenes by the IRGC, answerable only to the supreme leader, with 150,000 to 190,000 troops, army, navy, air force and intelligence wing; the Basij, a volunteer paramilitary force meaning “mobilization,” enforces Islamic morality and props up the regime. ### How Iran's next supreme leader is chosen | AP News | 2026-03-01: AP said Khamenei’s death after almost 37 years in power raised questions about Iran’s future, and that the contours of succession began taking shape the morning after his killing in an airstrike campaign by the United States and Israel. Iran on Sunday formed a temporary leadership council under its constitution to govern, made up of the sitting president Masoud Pezeshkian, the head of the judiciary Gholamhossein Mohseni Ejei, and a member of the Guardian Council chosen by the Expediency Council, which advises the supreme leader and settles disputes with parliament; the council members will “temporarily assume all the duties of leadership.” The 88-member Assembly of Experts “must, as soon as possible” choose a new supreme leader, and its 88 Shiite clerics are elected every eight years and vetted by the Guardian Council, Iran’s constitutional watchdog. AP noted the Guardian Council barred former president Hassan Rouhani from the March 2024 Assembly of Experts election. It identified Mojtaba Khamenei, 56, as a potential successor after the May 2024 helicopter death of Ebrahim Raisi, who had previously been thought to be a contender, and said a father-to-son transfer could anger critics and supporters alike as resembling a religious dynasty after the 1979 Islamic Revolution and the collapse of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi’s U.S.-backed government. AP also reiterated that in 1989, Grand Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini died and Khamenei was named successor in less than a day, without a transition council. The supreme leader, AP said, has final say over all matters of state and serves as commander-in-chief of the military and the Revolutionary Guard, which the U.S. designated a terrorist organization in 2019 and which leads the “Axis of Resistance” across the Middle East. ### Iran will pick a new supreme leader in 'one or two days' as retaliation spreads to more targets | Fortune | 2026-03-01: Fortune said Iran vowed revenge on Sunday after the killing of its supreme leader and traded strikes with Israel as part of a widening war sparked by surprise U.S. and Israeli bombardment a day earlier. ### Iran foreign minister suggests new supreme leader may be chosen within days | US-Israel war on Iran News | Al Jazeera | 2026-03-01: Al Jazeera quoted Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi saying Iran could elect a new supreme leader within “one or two days” as the country entered a 40-day mourning period after the killing of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei in joint U.S.-Israeli strikes. He said the constitutional machinery of succession was already turning. President Masoud Pezeshkian confirmed on Sunday that the council “has begun its work” in a prerecorded address on Iranian state television, calling Khamenei’s killing “a