US strikes Iran: Trump rolls the dice as fears of wider war surge | 2026-03-01 — The article says the United States launched massive strikes on Iran, dubbed Operation Epic Fury, with the stated goals of ending Tehran’s nuclear program and ousting the regime, and notes that Iran retaliated with missile strikes on Israel and U.S. bases across the region. President Donald Trump said in a video posted on social media Feb. 27, wearing a white cap that read “USA,” that “the lives of courageous American heroes may be lost, and we may have casualties,” but called it “a noble mission.” It cites a University of Maryland poll of 1,004 adults taken Feb. 5-9 showing only 21% favored the U.S. initiating an attack on Iran, 49% opposed, 30% didn’t know; among Republicans, 40% supported it and 35% were unsure, with a 3.5 percentage point margin of error. The piece emphasizes that Iran launched retaliatory missile strikes on Israel and U.S. military bases in Bahrain, Iraq, Kuwait, Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the UAE, and says Trump urged Iranians to “take over your government; it will be yours to take,” after a 2026 crackdown reportedly killed thousands. It also reviews history: the overthrow of the U.S.-backed shah in 1979, Jimmy Carter’s failure to win release of 52 hostages, Ronald Reagan’s Iran-contra affair, Barack Obama’s sanctions diplomacy, and Trump’s cancellation of Obama’s nuclear deal. ### Tom Cotton: Republicans 'overwhelmingly' back military action on Iran | 2026-03-01 — Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) told CNN’s Dana Bash on “State of the Union” that U.S. military action against Iran would have “overwhelming support” among Republicans on Capitol Hill, saying he had been on the campaign trail in Arkansas for the last two days and had not heard “a single Arkansan” express anything but support for Trump’s decision “to finally put America’s foot down and end 47 years of terror and revolutionary violence by the Islamic Republic against the United States and our citizens.” He said he expected elected Republicans “in the Congress” to back Trump when lawmakers returned to the Capitol later that week. The article says the U.S. and Israel launched strikes in Iran early Saturday and that Iran retaliated against Israel and Gulf countries including Saudi Arabia and Qatar; Democrats and some GOP lawmakers pushed Congress to return from recess for a war powers resolution introduced by Rep. Thomas Massie (R-Ky.) and Rep. Ro Khanna (D-Calif.) to stop the war. Cotton said future strikes would focus on Tehran’s “thousands” of missiles, missile launchers and missile manufacturing capability, saying Iran “can never have a nuclear weapon” and “can’t be allowed to have a vast missile arsenal” that threatens U.S. troops, Israel and “our other friends in the region.” ### Reuters | Breaking International News & Views | 2026-03-01 — Reuters reported, from Iranian sources, that Mojtaba Khamanei, the son of Iran’s late Supreme Leader, survived the assault on the country by U.S. and Israeli air strikes. ### Reuters | Breaking International News & Views | 2026-03-01 — Reuters said Iran’s security chief Ali Larijani was killed by Israel, confirmed by the Iranian government on Tuesday, and described him as the most senior figure targeted since the U.S.-Israeli war’s first day; a senior Iranian official said Iran’s new supreme leader rejected de-escalation offers conveyed by intermediary countries. ### U.S.-Israeli strikes in Iran continue into 2nd day : NPR | 2026-03-01 — NPR reported on Sunday afternoon from Amman and Washington that President Trump said more U.S. service members would likely be killed in the U.S. and Israeli war against Iran after the Pentagon confirmed three U.S. service members were killed and at least five seriously wounded; Trump called them “true American patriots” and said “there will likely be more before it ends.” CENTCOM confirmed the casualties, the first American casualties since the U.S. and Israel launched strikes on Saturday, and a U.S. official said the dead troops were ground-based forces stationed in Kuwait. CENTCOM said the U.S. operation, “Epic Fury,” struck an Iranian Jamaran-class corvette that was sinking at a pier at an Iranian port on the Gulf of Oman, while a separate post said U.S. B-2 stealth bombers armed with 2,000-lb bombs struck Iran’s ballistic missile facilities on Saturday night; CENTCOM said over 1,000 targets had been struck. Trump also claimed U.S. forces had sunk nine Iranian naval ships and “largely destroyed” Iran’s naval headquarters, a claim not confirmed by CENTCOM. The article says Israel launched fresh attacks in Tehran, the Iranian state media said Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, 86, was killed in air strikes targeting his office, and Iran created a three-person temporary leadership council before clerics choose a new leader. Esmail Baghaei told NPR that 158 students were killed at an elementary school in Minab and said hospitals in central Tehran were hit; Capt. Tim Hawkins said the U.S. was looking into civilian-harm reports and “we have never — and will never — target civilians.” Mourners packed Tehran’s Enghelab Square, crowds gathered in Yasuj chanting “the lion of God has been killed,” Iraq blocked Baghdad’s green zone, Jordan reported air raid sirens, and Iran threatened to close the Strait of Hormuz and warned there would be “no mercy or forgiveness.” Trump told Truth Social Iran would face “a force that has never been seen before” if it escalated, and told CNBC operations were “ahead of schedule.” ### Photos: Reactions from Iran, Israel, Bahrain after strikes : NPR | 2026-03-01 — The photo package shows the aftermath and reactions after the U.S. and Israel launched airstrikes on Iran early Saturday and Iran retaliated by firing missiles across the region. Captions mention smoke rising over Tehran on March 01, 2026; demonstrators waving Iranian flags in Tehran on Saturday, Feb. 28, 2026; Israeli first responders in Tel Aviv after an Iranian strike in retaliation for coordinated US-Israeli airstrikes; emergency personnel extinguishing a fire in Manama, Bahrain; government supporters mourning after state TV announced the death of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei; demonstrators in support of a war in Los Angeles, California, and protesters holding a “No New US War In The Middle East” sign in Houston, Texas; Iran-backed Houthis in Sanaa, Yemen, protesting Khamenei’s killing; Iranian community celebrations in Glasgow, Scotland; and people sheltering in an underground parking garage in Tel Aviv during missile warnings. ### US and Israel pound Iran as Trump signals willingness to talk to Tehran | 2026-03-01 — AP said the U.S. and Israel pounded targets across Iran on Sunday, dropping massive bombs on ballistic missile sites and wiping out warships, in an intensifying campaign after the killing of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Iranian leaders said more than 200 people had been killed since the strikes began. Iran-supported militants in Iraq and Lebanon claimed strikes on Israel and