With US pressure rising, Iran agrees to 'never, ever have nuclear material, Oman mediator says - The Times of India | 2026-02-28: Iran’s foreign minister said Tehran had agreed it will “never, ever have … nuclear material” capable of producing a bomb, a breakthrough he described as a major step toward defusing tensions between Washington and Tehran. Speaking to CBS News after mediating several rounds of indirect talks, Oman’s mediator Badr Albusaidi said negotiators had made “substantial progress” and that a “peace deal is within our reach.” He said Iran had committed to “zero accumulation, zero stockpiling, and full verification” under any agreement, and that its existing stockpiles of enriched uranium would be blended down to the lowest enrichment levels and converted into nuclear fuel in an irreversible way. He said International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors would get full access to nuclear facilities to verify compliance, and that if a fair and durable deal were secured, he was confident even American inspectors could be allowed access at some stage. The article said this came as Donald Trump was “not happy” with the pace of negotiations after the latest round in Geneva ended without a breakthrough; Trump said, “They cannot have nuclear weapons,” complained that Iranian negotiators “don’t want to quite go far enough,” threatened military action if Iran refused a far-reaching deal, and when asked how close he was to ordering a strike replied, “I’d rather not tell you,” while also acknowledging that “when there’s war, there’s a risk of anything.” Diplomatic activity intensified across the Middle East, with US Secretary of State Marco Rubio due to visit Israel, and the United Nations calling on both sides to stay on the diplomatic track as military assets built up in the region. ### Iran agreed to 'zero stockpiling' of nuclear material in US talks: Omani FM | 2026-02-28: Oman’s foreign minister Badr al-Busaidi, acting as mediator between US and Iranian officials in Geneva, said Iran was offering to give up stockpiling enriched uranium as part of a deal with the US related to its nuclear program. Speaking to Margaret Brennan on CBS’s “Face the Nation,” he said, “Now we are talking about zero stockpiling and that is very, very important because if you cannot stockpile material that is enriched, then there is no way you can actually create a bomb.” The article said Iran currently held a stockpile of between 300 and 400 kilograms of 60 percent enriched uranium, which nuclear experts had warned could be converted to a nuclear weapon. Al-Busaidi said, if there was a deal, international nuclear inspectors, likely from the IAEA, could inspect facilities at places like Isfahan and inspect the stockpiles; he said, “There is agreement now that this will be downblended to the lowest level possible. And converted into fuel and that fuel will be irreversible. … I think we have agreement on that in my view,” and added there would be full access for inspectors. Trump was not as optimistic, having massed a major military contingent in the Middle East and threatened strikes if no deal was reached; he said Friday morning, “We haven’t made a final decision. We’re not exactly happy with the way they’re negotiating,” and “We’ll see how it all works out.” ### Peace ‘within reach’ as Iran agrees no nuclear material stockpile: Oman FM | Military News | Al Jazeera | 2026-02-28: Al Jazeera reported that during indirect talks with the United States Iran agreed never to stockpile enriched uranium, and that Oman’s top diplomat Badr bin Hamad Al Busaidi described the move as a major breakthrough and said all issues in a deal could be resolved “amicably and comprehensively” within a few months. After Oman brokered the third round of indirect talks between the US and Iran in Geneva on Thursday, Al Busaidi said, “A peace deal is within our reach … if we just allow diplomacy the space it needs to get there,” and, “The single most important achievement, I believe, is the agreement that Iran will never ever have nuclear material that will create a bomb,” adding that “zero stockpiling” meant “there is no way that you can actually create a bomb.” He said there would be “full and comprehensive verification by the IAEA [International Atomic Energy Agency],” and that Iran would degrade current stockpiles to “the lowest level possible” so it was “converted into fuel, and that fuel will be irreversible.” He also said, on recent US demands about Iran’s missile programme, “I believe Iran is open to discuss everything,” hoped the Geneva talks had done enough to hold off a US attack, and said, “We have really advanced substantially,” though “various details” still needed ironing out; the next round of indirect negotiations was expected Monday in Vienna, Austria, and Al Busaidi had met earlier Friday with US Vice President JD Vance before Trump continued to saber-rattle while preferring a diplomatic solution. ### Iranian leader Khamenei killed in air strikes as U.S., Israel launch attacks | Reuters | 2026-02-28: Reuters reported from Washington/Jerusalem/Dubai/Doha that Iran’s Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei was killed on Saturday, with state media confirming his death early Sunday, after the United States and Israel launched the most ambitious attack on Iranian targets in decades. A senior Israeli official told Reuters the leader’s body had been found after a strike, and Trump said the US had worked closely with Israel to target the man who had led Iran since 1989. Iran called the strikes unprovoked and illegal and responded with missiles fired at Israel and at least seven other countries, including Gulf states hosting US bases. Trump said the strikes were meant to end a decades-long threat from Iran and ensure it could not develop a nuclear weapon, writing on Truth Social that intelligence and tracking systems had monitored Khamenei’s whereabouts and that “there was not a thing he, or the other leaders that have been killed along with him, could do.” He repeated calls for Iranians to topple the government and warned, “The heavy and pinpoint bombing, however, will continue, uninterrupted throughout the week or, as long as necessary to achieve our objective of PEACE THROUGHOUT THE MIDDLE EAST AND, INDEED, THE WORLD!” Netanyahu said Khamenei’s compound had been destroyed. Three sources said Iranian Defence Minister Amir Nasirzadeh and Revolutionary Guards commander Mohammed Pakpour were among those killed; Israeli military sources said five other senior commanders were dead, including Ali Shamkhani, an adviser to Khamenei, and Iranian media said Khamenei’s daughter, grandchild, son-in-law and daughter-in-law were also killed. Witnesses saw celebrations in Tehran, Karaj and Isfahan, while in Tabriz mother-of-two Minou said, “We are scared, we are terrified. My children are shaking, we have nowhere to go, we will die here.” Iran fired hundreds of missiles and drones; the Pentagon said there were no US deaths or injuries. Iran warned the Strait of Hormuz, through which around a fifth of global oil consumption passes, had been closed, oil traders braced for a sharp jump and airlines canceled flights; Israel said some 200 fighter jets hit 500 targets throughout Iran, including strategic defense systems, and a girls’ primary school in Minab was hit, killing 85 people