Iran’s exiled crown prince touts himself as future leader. Is this what Iranians want? | The Times of Israel | 2026-03-02: after the killing of Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei, Iran announced transition plans for an interim leadership council made up of “the president, the head of the judiciary and a jurist from the Guardian Council,” while exiled crown prince Reza Pahlavi, 65, presented himself as the most visible opposition figure and a transitional leader for a “democratic transition to a secular Iran.” In a Washington Post opinion piece on Sunday he thanked Donald Trump for the strikes and wrote, “Many Iranians, often despite facing bullets, have called on me to lead this transition. I am in awe of their courage, and I have answered their call,” adding, “a new constitution drafted and ratified by referendum, followed by free elections under international oversight. When Iranians vote, the transitional government dissolves.” He said opposition figures agreed on “separation of religion and state,” “territorial integrity,” and “individual liberties and equality of all citizens.” The article traced the Pahlavi dynasty back to 1925, when Reza Khan overthrew the previous dynasty, adopted the Pahlavi name, tried to move Iran toward Western norms, and was “famous for banning the hijab,” before exile by the British after the Anglo-Soviet invasion of 1941; his son Mohammad Reza Pahlavi was also authoritarian and was the Shah of Iran until the 1979 Islamic Revolution. The U.S.-based National Union for Democracy in Iran (NUFDI) launched the “Iran Prosperity Project” in early 2025 with Pahlavi’s foreword, then in July released an “Emergency Phase Booklet” that, despite democratic language, made Pahlavi the “leader of the national uprising,” gave him veto power over institutions and selection processes, and envisioned a highly centralized interim state with a referendum choosing between a constitutional monarchy or democratic republic, while notably omitting the federalist demands of ethnic minorities. The piece also noted that Pahlavi has avoided discussing his father’s autocratic rule and human rights abuses, and that supporters have been aggressive: at the 62nd Munich Security Conference in Munich, southern Germany, Christiane Amanpour’s interview prompted royalists on X to heckle her for having “insulted” the crown prince; Amanpour had asked if he would tell supporters to stop their “terrifying” attacks on ordinary Iranians, and he replied, “I cannot control millions of people, whatever they say on social media, and who knows if they are real people or not.” The article closed by noting that some students in protests shouted, “No to monarchy, no to the leadership of the clerics, yes to an egalitarian democracy,” and that the real level of support for a shah inside Iran remains unclear because polling is difficult and communication is tightly controlled. ### Who could lead Iran after Khamenei’s death? Reza Pahlavi makes his case - Newsweek | 2026-03-02: amid joint U.S. and Israeli strikes across the Islamic Republic and the death of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, U.S.-based Reza Pahlavi, son of Iran’s last shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, argued he should be a “transitional leader” rather than a monarch, telling Iranians in an early-war message, “remain in your homes,” “Stay alert and ready to return to the streets for the final action at the appropriate time, which I shall communicate to you,” and “Follow my messages through social media. If disruptions occur in the internet and satellite broadcasts, I will remain in contact with you via radio. We are very close to final victory. I hope to be with you as soon as possible so that together we may reclaim Iran and rebuild it.” The story compared him to Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, who returned from exile in France to take power from Pahlavi’s father, but emphasized that unlike popular protest, foreign military intervention now most threatens the Islamic Republic. It said Pahlavi’s backing of U.S.-Israeli action has made him divisive, with analyst Alireza Nader calling his movement “increasingly radicalized” and “moved to the far right,” and warning, “I fear that if Pahlavi becomes the ‘transition leader,’ Iran will never have truly free elections.” The main rival identified was the National Council of Resistance of Iran, led by the Mojahedin-e Khalq (MeK) under Maryam Rajavi since 2003; the MeK’s 10-point plan, unveiled shortly after the strikes began on February 28, called for dismantling velayat-e faqih, replacing it with a secular democratic republic based on universal suffrage, political pluralism and civil liberties, dissolving the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and other security/censorship bodies, guaranteeing gender equality, minority autonomy, an independent judiciary, abolition of the death penalty, and a non-nuclear foreign policy centered on “peace, coexistence and international and regional cooperation.” Pahlavi reiterated four core principles in a March 1 CBS News interview: Iran’s territorial integrity, separation of religion from state, equality of all citizens under the law and individual liberties, and a democratic process for choosing governance; he said he was “not running for office” but seeking to be a “transitional leader.” The article also described the Coalition of Political Forces of Iranian Kurdistan, uniting five Kurdish groups including the Democratic Party of Iranian Kurdistan (PDKI), Kurdistan Freedom Party (PAK), Kurdistan Free Life Party (PJAK), Organization of Iranian Kurdistan Struggle and Komala of the Toilers of Kurdistan, with Pahlavi criticizing them as “separatists,” which angered Kurdish parties. Alireza Nader recalled that Pahlavi had promised “50,000-100,000 regime defectors” before the January uprising, broadcast by Iran International, and other analysts said Pahlavi lacks organization inside Iran, has failed to build rapport with reformists such as President Masoud Pezeshkian, and is seen by many as depending on U.S. and Israeli pressure to create a vacuum he could fill. Iran’s interim Leadership Council was described as headed by newly named Ayatollah Alireza Arafi alongside President Masoud Pezeshkian and Chief Justice Gholam Hossein Mohseni Ejehe, while U.S. President Donald Trump alleged senior IRGC figures were seeking a deal with Washington; analysts Ali Alfoneh and Mostafa Najafi said the opposition lacks leadership, resources and domestic legitimacy, and that foreign-aligned actors face a broad consensus against external intervention. ### Decades of tensions with Cuba in the spotlight after deadly boat shooting | 2026-03-02: NBC News’ Andrea Mitchell used the deadly boat shooting off the shores of Cuba as a springboard to revisit decades of U.S.-Cuba clashes, explicitly citing the Cuban missile crisis, Elián González and “Havana Syndrome” in a history-focused look at the two countries’ fraught relationship. ### South Florida Cuban exiles sign "Freedom Accord" after Trump's call - CBS Miami | 2026-03-02: after Donald Trump called for change in Cuba, South Florida Cuban exiles signed the “Freedom Accord,” unveiled a 3-phase democracy plan, and alerted the State