The batch centers on the March 4, 2026 escalation of the U.S.-Israel war against Iran and the political fallout it generated. In “Senate rejects war powers bill to halt attacks against Iran” | AP News, dated 2026-03-04, Senate Republicans voted down a war powers resolution that would have halted the Trump administration’s war against Iran unless Congress approved further attacks; the measure failed 47-53, with Republican Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky voting in favor and Democratic Sen. John Fetterman of Pennsylvania voting against, while the House twin bill was expected to face an unlikely path in a GOP-controlled chamber. The same AP package reported that a U.S. submarine sank an Iranian warship in international waters, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth said more forces would arrive in the Middle East and that the U.S. “will take all the time we need to make sure that we succeed,” and noted Israeli strikes on Tehran, Hezbollah in Lebanon, Bahrain, Kuwait and Israel, with Turkey saying NATO defenses intercepted an Iranian ballistic missile before it entered Turkish airspace; the Pentagon also released the remaining two names of the six U.S. soldiers killed in the Port Shuaiba, Kuwait drone strike as Chief Warrant Officer 3 Robert Marzan, 54, of Sacramento and Maj. Jeffrey O’Brien, 45, of Indianola, Iowa. The article also included Iran and Israel’s ambassadors trading accusations in South Korea, Saudi Arabia’s destruction of a drone in al-Jawf province, Israeli strikes in Lebanon killing two in the Beddawi Palestinian refugee camp near Tripoli and three on a coastal highway in southern Lebanon, Lebanese Health Ministry figures of more than 70 killed and over 430 wounded in four days, sirens in Jerusalem, Israel’s claim that Iran had launched a third overnight missile salvo, South Korea’s activation of a 100 trillion won ($68.5 billion) emergency financial package and evacuation of 24 citizens from Iran to Turkmenistan and 62 from Israel to Egypt, New Zealand’s plan to deploy two military planes to evacuate citizens, State Department charter flights beginning for Americans stranded in the Middle East, a new attack off Kuwait’s coast, Qatar evacuating residents near the U.S. Embassy in Doha, Israel easing some restrictions starting Thursday at noon while saying ballistic missile fire from Iran had dropped 86% from the first day and 23% in the last 24 hours, Rep. Thomas Massie and Rep. Ro Khanna pushing a House war powers resolution, UN peacekeepers saying both Israel and Hezbollah were violating Lebanon’s ceasefire, Israel saying its air force destroyed missile sites in western and central Iran, Trump saying at a White House event that the U.S. was “doing very well on the war front” and giving himself “about a 15” out of 10, the State Department advising citizens to use mytravel.state.gov/s/crisis-intake, the Arab League chief Ahmed Aboul Gheit demanding Iran stop attacks on Gulf states, Israel launching new strikes on Tehran, Hezbollah leader Naim Kassem vowing to keep fighting Israel and rejecting disarmament, the U.N. refugee agency estimating 100,000 people fled Tehran in the war’s first two days, Spain denying White House claims that it would cooperate with U.S. operations, Israel reporting its first combat casualties of the war as two soldiers wounded in southern Lebanon, the White House saying U.S. ground troops in Iran were “not part of the plan for this operation at this time,” that Trump thought the U.S. public supported the war, that Operation Epic Fury was launched because Iran posed an imminent and direct threat, that he would attend a dignified transfer at Dover Air Force Base for the six troops killed in the Middle East, and that dozens of French travelers and 279 Mexicans were evacuated from the region. In “Breaking News, Latest News and Videos” | CNN, dated 2026-03-04, CNN’s lead international war item said “Iran names Khamenei's son new supreme leader as war escalates,” with a teaser stating that new video appeared to confirm a U.S. airstrike on an IRGC base adjacent to a school in Minab, that Mojtaba Khamenei’s ascension came as Iran, the U.S. and Israel traded strikes, that Dubai’s influencer-cultivated image as a safe haven had “gone up in smoke,” that a Tel Aviv home was torn apart in an Iranian missile strike, and that a seventh U.S. service member was killed after being wounded in an attack in Saudi Arabia; the page was largely a live-news index, but its war framing and specific references can be tested directly. In “Will the war with Iran boost Netanyahu's prospects at the ballot box?” | The Times of Israel, dated 2026-03-04, the core claim was that an Israeli victory in the war against Iran would likely give Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu a polling bump but not necessarily guarantee a win in elections due by late October; an Israel Democracy Institute poll earlier that week found 74% of Jewish Israelis trusted Netanyahu to manage the war properly, 93% supported Operation Roaring Lion, 57% backed continuing operations until the ayatollahs’ regime was overthrown, while among Arab Israelis support for the war was 26% and trust in Netanyahu was 16%. The piece noted analyst Dahlia Scheindlin’s warning not to assume the war changes his fortunes, especially after last summer’s 12-day war with Iran produced no boost and polls gave Netanyahu’s bloc only 48 to 54 of 120 Knesset seats; pollster Mitchell Barak said undecided voters often decide “on the Friday before the Tuesday election,” that the likelihood is the election “will move up from October,” and that Netanyahu has “a lot of momentum” but could be disrupted by another mass-casualty event like the deadly missile strike on Beit Shemesh, where a ballistic missile fired from Iran struck on March 1, 2026 and killed nine people. An anonymous coalition insider said a win over Iran would shift the narrative away from October 7, that snap elections would look “political and cynical,” and that Netanyahu really wants a “game changer” such as “Regime change [in Iran] plus a Saudi [normalization] deal,” with more countries joining the Abraham Accords possibly before the election; the article also mentioned Netanyahu at Palmachim Air Base on March 3, 2026 and that more than half of Israelis do not believe his account of his decisions before Hamas’s October 7, 2023 attack. In “The Blogs: Reforged: Netanyahu’s Political Resurrection | Jonathan Javor | The Times of Israel,” dated 2026-03-04, the argument was explicitly celebratory: in the aftermath of October 7th, Netanyahu looked “politically finished,” polls plummeted, protests swelled, his own party distanced itself, and he seemed weakened and reactive, but “two and a half years later” the operation in Iran had “fundamentally reshaped Netanyahu’s legacy,” recasting him as the leader who restored Israeli deterrence and strength and even as a regional or global superpower figure. The essay compared Netanyahu’s rapport with Donald Trump to the U.S.-UK “special relationship” invoked by Sir Keir Starmer, invoked Winston Churchill’s post-Gallipoli comeback after D-Day, described October 7th as a “scar” and “political