DHS shutdown drags into week two as Iran threat, SOTU clash complicate Hill talks, published February 23, 2026, by Alex Miller for Fox News, says the partial government shutdown over Department of Homeland Security (DHS) funding had dragged into its 10th day, with Senate Democrats and the White House still at odds and no “direct conversations or correspondence” between President Donald Trump and congressional Democrats recently, according to White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt. Leavitt said the White House and its representatives were handling the dialogue and blamed Democrats, saying they “have chosen to act against the American people for political reasons,” while calling Democrats’ counterproposal to the White House’s own offer “unserious.” Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., and his caucus had not relented, and Senate Majority Leader John Thune, R-S.D., told Fox News Digital there was “some room for give and take” but that Republicans remained firm against Democratic demands that Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents get judicial warrants, unmasking, and other reforms that Democrats argued would increase risks for agents in the field. Thune said the White House’s last offer was “a really — it was a good faith one,” aimed at funding DHS, but the Senate vote on the original DHS spending bill was delayed by winter storms on the East Coast until Tuesday night, ahead of Trump’s State of the Union address. The piece noted this was the third shutdown during Trump’s second term, that Trump had helped broker a January funding truce with Schumer but was not directly involved in the February negotiations, and that additional complications included a possible conflict with Iran and Trump’s desire to move ahead with tariffs without congressional approval. Trump said Friday he was “considering” a limited military strike against Iran; Sen. Tim Kaine, D-Va., said he had a war powers resolution filed and ready to block such an attack and challenged colleagues, “If some of my colleagues support war, then they should have the guts to vote for the war and to be held accountable by their constituents, rather than hiding under their desks.” The article also tied in the Supreme Court’s ruling to torpedo Trump’s sweeping duties, noting that Trump was considering bypassing Congress to move ahead with another set of global 10% tariffs; a Republican aide said the GOP was “waiting to see what POTUS does next,” adding, “The State of the Union should be interesting.” ### Where the DHS shutdown could start to hurt, published Feb 23rd 2026, from WASHINGTON, DC, said public outcry over the budget impasse had been minimal so far, but warned that could soon change as Donald Trump prepared to deliver his state-of-the-union speech on February 24th under “unusual circumstances”: the U.S. was amassing a huge military force in the Middle East as Trump contemplated an attack on Iran, the Supreme Court had just struck down his signature tariff policy, and DHS had been shut down since February 14th after lawmakers failed to agree on a funding deal. The article emphasized DHS oversees “everything from airport security to drug busts,” and said it would be the first State of the Union address delivered with part of the government closed. ### Somalia Offers US Access to Military Bases, Critical Minerals - Bloomberg, February 23, 2026 at 9:25 AM UTC, reported that Somalia offered to renew a deal allowing the United States access to its ports and airports for military purposes, countering a similar proposal from the breakaway region of Somaliland. Ali Mohamed Omar Balcad, Somalia’s state minister for foreign affairs, said, “Somalia and the US have a longstanding cooperation framework, including a 1980 agreement on port and airport access for US military purposes,” and that the federal government had “recently offered to renew that agreement,” which he called “the appropriate and lawful channel for any security cooperation.” The competing entities were Somalia’s federal government and Somaliland, and the facilities at issue were ports and airports for military purposes under the 1980 agreement. ### Trump mulls targeted strike on Iran, followed by larger attack; Negotiators to meet Thursday forlast-ditch talks - The Times of India, on February 23, 2026, said President Donald Trump had told advisers that if diplomacy or any initial targeted U.S. attack did not make Iran give up its nuclear program, he would consider a much bigger attack in coming months intended to drive Iran’s leaders from power. Negotiators from the United States and Iran were scheduled to meet in Geneva on Thursday for last-ditch talks, but Trump was weighing military options if they failed. The article said he was leaning toward an initial strike in coming days against targets including the headquarters of Iran’s Revolutionary Guard, nuclear sites, and the ballistic missile program, with a later-year assault against Ayatollah Ali Khamenei left open if needed. It said two aircraft carrier groups, dozens of fighter jets, bombers, and refueling aircraft were massing within striking distance of Iran, while Trump met in the White House Situation Room on Wednesday with Vice President JD Vance; Secretary of State Marco Rubio; Gen. Dan Caine, chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; CIA Director John Ratcliffe; and White House chief of staff Susie Wiles. Vance pressed Caine and Ratcliffe on the risks and complexity of a strike; Caine said earlier against Venezuela’s Nicolás Maduro he had predicted high likelihood of success, but Iran was a far more difficult target, and commando raid plans had been shelved. Steve Witkoff said Trump’s “clear direction” was “zero enrichment” of nuclear material, while Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi insisted on CBS’ “Face the Nation” that Iran would not give up its right to make nuclear fuel under the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. The piece said a possible off-ramp was a very limited nuclear enrichment program for medical research and treatments, reportedly emanating from IAEA Director General Rafael Grossi, with Iran using the Tehran Research Reactor outside Tehran, first supplied to the pro-American shah under the U.S. “Atoms for Peace” program, and noted Trump’s 2018 exit from the 2015 Obama-era agreement helped create the current crisis. It also said the Gerald R. Ford carrier was steaming south of Italy and would soon be off the coast of Israel, and that Arab leaders were angry over comments by U.S. ambassador to Israel Mike Huckabee, in an interview with Tucker Carlson, that Israel had a right to much of the Middle East. ### Trump considers ‘much bigger attack’ on Iran as part of two-pronged war if diplomacy fails, published February 23, 2026, by the Associated Press? Actually this Reuters-style story says Trump considers a two-pronged war if diplomacy fails and repeats that U.S. and Iranian negotiators were to meet in Geneva on Thursday, that Trump had discussed plans in the White House Situation Room on Wednesday with JD Vance, Marco Rubio, Gen. Dan Caine, John Ratcliffe, and Susie Wiles, and that the U.S. had surged military firepower into the region. It described possible targets as Iran’s Revolutionary Guard headquarters, nuclear sites, and ballistic missile program, a shelved commando raid on nuclear or missile facilities buried far below the surface, and concerns from Army, Navy, and Air Force officials about readiness of Navy ships, scarce Patriot antimissile defenses, and overstretched transport and surveillance planes. It