Iranian clerics elected the son of the late Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei as the next leader of the country, Iranian state media reported Sunday, as the U.S. and Israel continue to pummel the country with military strikes.

Mojtaba Khamenei was elected by a body of 88 Iranian clerics in the wake of the death of his 86-year-old father, the nation’s three-decade ruler. The U.S. confirmed it killed Ali Khamenei in an airstrike on Feb. 28.

Mojtaba Khamenei, 56, is the second son of the former leader and was sanctioned by the U.S. in 2019 for taking on significant ruling authority despite “never being elected or appointed to a government position.”

CNN reported that father-to-son succession is frowned upon in the Shiite Muslim clerical establishment as it mirrors the hereditary monarchy the revolution overthrew in 1979.

U.S. officials said they don’t intend to hold diplomatic talks with Iran until the American military operation runs its course. President Trump has given conflicting statements on the objectives and timeline of the war with Iran, pushing for regime change in the country but saying the U.S. wants to eliminate Iran’s military threat.

Trump has also signaled he’d be willing to keep the regime in place if an official emerged who would accede to U.S. demands. Some of these include no enrichment of uranium that can be used for a nuclear weapon, an end to the country’s ballistic missile program and an end to terrorist proxies.

In Iran’s system of government, the supreme leader is the most powerful political official. His constitutional authority extends over the judiciary, the regular armed forces, the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) and state-controlled media.

But it’s not clear the current relationship between Khamenei and Ali Larijani, the secretary of Iran’s Supreme National Security Council. Larijani in recent weeks was granted extraordinary freedom to run the country, The New York Times reported, as the threat of U.S. and Israeli strikes loomed.

The Treasury Department said Khamenei worked closely with the IRGC and the Basij Resistance Force, a volunteer militia, to advance “his father’s destabilizing regional ambitions and oppressive domestic objectives.”

The IRGC is the military force tasked with protecting the supreme leader. Iran’s clerical system is responsible for exporting the Islamic Revolution outside Iran’s borders, supporting terrorist proxy groups and carrying out attacks around the world.

The IRGC and Basij forces are also implicated in the violent crackdown on protesters, most recently the killing of approximately 7,000 people during popular protests between December and January.

“Mojtaba Khamenei has emerged as an enigmatic but powerful figure in the Iranian system,” United Against Nuclear Iran (UANI), a nonprofit and nonpartisan policy organization, wrote in an assessment.

Khamenei serves as “a combination of aide-de-camp, confidant, gatekeeper, and power broker,” UANI wrote. The organization said his early years were colored by his father’s revolutionary preaching against the then-ruling shah of Iran, and he experienced his father being forced into exile for years.

Khamenei also watched his father return to a postrevolution Iran in 1979, rise through the political ranks and allow access to education for families of regime elites.

UANI said Khamenei served during the Iran-Iraq War in the Habib battalion, and that facilitated relationships with people who would go on to be leading figures in the IRGC.

Ali Khamenei was elected supreme leader in 1989, and UANI writes that his son gained station and influence over his father’s more than three-decade tenure.

“Mojtaba, who is married to the daughter of former Speaker of Parliament Gholam Ali Haddad-Adel, is the most powerful of Iran’s supreme leader’s sons,” UANI wrote.