Latest photos capture US and Israeli strikes against Iran

---

59 PHOTOS

Iranian clear the debris from damaged homes in the Iranian capital Tehran on March 15, 2026. Iran's Foreign Minister said in an interview published on March 15, that the war pitting his country against the United States and Israel will only end when Tehran can be certain it will not be restarted.' Rescue workers gather outside a damaged residential building as residents collect their belongings from the rubble in Tehran on March 12, 2026. The United States and Israel started striking Iran on Feb. 28, killing the Iranian supreme leader and top military leaders, and prompting authorities to retaliate with strikes on Israel and across the Gulf.' An explosion erupts following strikes near Azadi Tower close to Mehrabad International Airport in Tehran on March 7, 2026. The United States and Israel launched strikes against Iran on February 28, sparking swift retaliation by the Islamic republic which responded with missile attacks across the region. The war has dragged in global powers, upended the world's energy and transport sectors, and brought chaos to even usually peaceful areas of the volatile region.' Smoke and fire rise from the site of airstrikes in a central area of the Iranian capital Tehran on March 6, 2026. Fresh strikes rocked Iran and Lebanon on March 6, as Israel vowed to escalate to a new phase in the Middle East war that has spiralled rapidly throughout the region and beyond.' A plume of smoke rises after a strike on the Iranian capital of Tehran on March 5, 2026. Israel pounded Tehran with fresh strikes and Iran targeted Kurdish guerilla groups in Iraq on March 5 as a spiralling war in the Middle East engulfed the entire region. ' People walk past damaged buildings following a strike on a police station, amid the U.S.-Israeli conflict with Iran, in Tehran, Iran, March 4, 2026.' An Iranian flag is placed amids rubble and debris next to a destroyed residential building near Ferdowsi square in Tehran on March 3, 2026.U.S. and Israeli military forces attacked Iran on Saturday, Feb. 28 that killed the country’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Officials from the United States and Israel said they have launched over 1,200 strikes aimed at destroying Iran's ballistic missile and nuclear development programs. People rush to inspect the site of an Israeli airstrike that targeted the offices of Al-Qard al-Hassan, a Hezbollah-linked financial institution, in the southern coastal Lebanese city of Tyre on March 2, 2026. Israel bombarded Lebanon on March 2, expanding the conflict across the region after the massive Israel-US attack on Iran that the US president launched to topple Tehran's ruling clerics, and killing their supreme leader o February 28. Smoke rises following an explosion, after Israel and the U.S. launched strikes on Iran, in Tehran, Iran on March 1, 2026. A screengrab from a video released by U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM), which accompanied a press release describing the operation dubbed "Epic Fury", an attack by the United States and Israel on Iran, shows an unmanned aerial vehicle on a runway at an unknown location, in this image obtained from social media released on Feb. 28, 2026.According to President Donald Trump, the United States joined Israel in launching military strikes, as well as "major combat operations," to target Iran's missile capabilities. Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei was killed in the joint strikes with Israel on Iran, an Israeli source confirmed to USA TODAY. Trump also confirmed on Truth Social that the leader had been killed. A still image released by U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM), which accompanied a press release describing the operation dubbed "Epic Fury", an attack by the United States and Israel on Iran, shows a rocket launch from a ship, in this picture obtained from social media released on February 28, 2026. Smoke rises following an explosion after the U.S. and Israel reportedly launched an attack against Iran, in Tehran, Iran, February 28, 2026. Smoke rises following an explosion after the U.S. and Israel reportedly launched an attack against Iran, in Tehran, Iran, February 28, 2026, in this screen grab taken from video. A plume of smoke rises following a reported explosion in Tehran on February 28, 2026. Two loud blasts were heard in Tehran on February 28 morning by AFP journalists, and two plumes of thick smoke were seen over the centre and east of the Iranian capital. Israel's defence ministry announced it had launched a "preemptive strike" on Iran as sirens sounded in Jerusalem and people across the country received phone alerts about an "extremely serious" threat. U.S. President Donald Trump pumps his fist after disembarking Air Force One at Palm Beach International Airport in West Palm Beach, Florida, U.S., February 27, 2026. Hours later, Trump made live comments about the military strikes he launched against Iran. Buildings inin Tehran stand after Israel and the U.S. launched strikes on Iran, February 28, 2026.