Ireland seeks slice of AI boom

Irish companies “have a very strong confidence in the US market and the growth opportunity that’s in the US,” the CEO of Ireland’s government trade agency told Semafor. Clodagh Kilcoyne/Reuters

Trump’s top priority faces pivotal Senate vote

Republican leaders are focused on getting the 50 votes needed to win the initial roll call.Rebecca Blackwell/Pool via Reuters

Iran conflict tests Federal Reserve’s dual mandate

Policymakers were already split over whether to prioritize persistent inflation or lackluster employment. Jonathan Ernst/Reuters

Trump lashes out at US allies over Iran

Europe has largely resisted Trump’s efforts to build an international coalition against Iran, with Germany’s defense minister saying, “This is not our war.”

US sends mixed messages over China summit

The US Treasury secretary walked back President Donald Trump’s remarks tying his upcoming China visit to the Iran conflict.

Illinois primaries showcase the rise of the bizarro-world super PAC

The cash, much of it from the crypto and AI industries as well as AIPAC, is swamping races throughout the state.

Schmitt to unveil Trump-approved changes to voter ID bill

The Missouri Republican aimed to fulfill the president’s new priorities for his top priority on the Hill.

Trump hints at possible ‘deal’ with Cuba after regime change threats

US President Donald Trump has vowed to take over Cuba, in a friendly manner or otherwise.

Democratic infighting intensifies in California House race

Ammar Campa-Najjar and Vista City Councilmember Corinna Contreras are going after a San Diego City Councilmember for a polling memo they say included racist lines of attack.

Senate Democrats plot defeat of Trump’s voter ID bill

[Democrats are prepared for “every single thing [Republicans] might do,” Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer told reporters on Sunday afternoon.]

Senate still waiting on Fed nominee’s paperwork

One likely paperwork holdup: Nominee Kevin Warsh’s complicated financial disclosures.

Oscars mask a Hollywood in crisis

As Hollywood celebrates the Oscars on Sunday, the glitz masks a deeper crisis for the entertainment industry: rising production costs.Daniel Cole/Reuters

Fears of global economic crisis grow after US strikes Iran oil terminal

After the US struck Iran’s main oil terminal, Tehran said it would retaliate against US-linked energy facilities in the region, deepening concerns about sustained disruptions to global supply.

AT&T CEO pitches Trump amid $23 billion antitrust review

The private meeting was to discuss AT&T’s mammoth investment in the US, as the company looks to minimize scrutiny of its EchoStar spectrum deal.

How Kyle Clark got BETA’s air taxis ready for takeoff

The electric aircraft company’s CEO has a ‘burn-the-boats’ approach to decision-making.

Upwork’s CEO on the AI agents that try to hire human workers

Hayden Brown sees the pairing of technology and human “orchestrators” redefining workforces.

Iran war threatens global chip supply

Barring a quick end to hostilities, Taiwan will struggle to satisfy its needs for liquefied natural gas, as well as other chemicals on which chip production depends.Ann Wang/Reuters

Nvidia expects $1 trillion in chip orders through 2027

The figure exceeds Nvidia’s previous projection of $500 billion revenue from its Blackwell and Vera Rubin systems.Fred Greaves/Reuters

EV sales surge in Europe while slowing in US, China

The European increase — a 21% year-on-year rise in February — was driven by continuing subsidies and policy support.

‘RAMageddon’ hits gaming industry

A global memory shortage driven by the AI boom is threatening to blunt the gaming industry’s multi-year momentum.

The revenge of Thomas Friedman: How AI is turning us into ‘inoffensive, center-left’ columnists

AI is steering us to cerebral slop.

Tech firms are diverging on how to integrate AI

Companies are leaning on AI firms to teach them how to integrate the technology into their own businesses.

China aims to expand oil reserves amid MidEast volatility

The world’s largest crude importer, China is vulnerable to a lasting disruption in global energy flows. Maxim Shemetov/Reuters

US solar installations fall as Trump policies hit sector

A combination of tariffs, scrapped subsidies, and a White House energy agenda built around fossil fuels hit the solar industry in 2025. Daniel Cole/Reuters

Russia’s fossil fuel revenue 14% higher than in February

The sudden boost is a result of higher oil and gas prices and the relaxation of some US sanctions.Amit Dave/Reuters

Iran’s asymmetric warfare challenges US

The US is confronting its limitations in dealing with Iran’s asymmetric warfare, analysts argued. DVIDS/Handout via Reuters

Semafor Gulf and a golden age under fire

War doesn’t change Semafor’s commitment to building the leading independent news business in the Gulf.

Major Gulf events canceled over Iran war

Formula 1 races in Bahrain and Saudi Arabia are the most high-profile casualties so far.

UAE airlines slowly resume operations

The UAE’s General Civil Aviation Authority said more than 1.4 million passengers passed through the country’s airports from Mar. 1 to 12.

How missile alert systems vary in Gulf countries

Depending on which Gulf country you’re in, the missile alert system may feel like an app store product, or something decidedly more old school.

Mineral exports curbs across Africa upend Chinese supply chains

The restrictions have squeezed Chinese refineries — the world’s biggest — forcing many to draw from domestic stockpiles. Raw copper from Zambia awaits export in a warehouse in Durban. Rogan Ward/File Photo/Reuters.

Opposition leader Bobi Wine flees Uganda

Wine said he was escaping the government’s attempt to capture him following his criticism of recent election results. Bobi Wine and his wife, Barbie Kyagulanyi. Michel Lunanga/Getty Images.

South Africa’s MTN revamp strategy neglects Iran assets

Iran remains one of MTN’s most valuable assets, where it has a 49% stake in the major telecoms company, Irancell.

South Africa’s Transnet in critical loan talks

The state-owned freight company is preparing to refinance this year.

Why the Horn of Africa could become the next front in the Iran war

Strategic bases and Red Sea trade routes are putting the region in the crosshairs as the Middle East conflict widens.

US eyes rebuilding relations with West African juntas

The Trump administration says its outreach is “pragmatic” as critics question the lack of democracy support.

Newsom calls FCC chairman’s threats ‘sick’

The California governor argued people from all political perspectives should be concerned about federal regulators weighing in on news content.Gary Miller/FilmMagic

Why (and how) everyone is cold-calling the president

Plus, what happened when Semafor’s Max Tani gave him a ring.

AI is the latest gatekeeper between brands and buyers

Companies are now writing ad copy for bots, not people, and those bots are telling consumers what products to buy.

Hasan Piker on streaming all day, his relationship with Zohran Mamdani, and the lefty media machine

Since 2018, Hasan Piker has gone from streaming alone in his bedroom to becoming one of North America’s most influential leftist creators.

How Kyle Clark got BETA’s air taxis ready for takeoff

The electric aircraft company’s CEO has a ‘burn-the-boats’ approach to decision-making. Courtesy of BETA/Joey Pfeifer/Semafor

Upwork’s CEO on the AI agents that try to hire human workers

Hayden Brown sees the pairing of technology and human “orchestrators” redefining workforces.Courtesy of Upwork/Joey Pfeifer/Semafor

Why Vlad Tenev thinks you’ll want Robinhood’s ‘James Bond’ credit card

A platinum-plated physical product advances the broker’s bid to become a financial “super app.”Courtesy of Robinhood/Joey Pfeifer/Semafor