March 16 (Reuters) - Amsterdam-based AI ‌infrastructure firm Nebius Group (NBIS.O), opens new tab said on Monday it has agreed with Meta Platforms (META.O), opens new tab to provide the social media giant with $12 billion worth of AI computing capacity across multiple locations by ​2027.

Under the agreement, Meta will also buy an additional $15 billion worth of ​capacity planned by Nebius over the coming five years if it ⁠is not sold to other customers, giving the contract a total value ​of up to $27 billion, Nebius said.

Last week, Nvidia said it would invest $2 billion to ​buy an 8.3% stake in Nebius, which uses Nvidia (NVDA.O), opens new tab chips in its data centers.

Nasdaq-listed Nebius shares, which closed at $112.50 on Friday, have risen 35% so far this year, giving it ​a market capitalization of $28.6 billion.

## DATACENTER RACE

The deal is the latest example of U.S. ​tech giants' efforts to supplement their own AI data-centre build-outs by locking in scarce GPU and ‌power ⁠capacity from "neocloud" providers like Nebius.

Unlike large cloud firms that serve a broad range of industries, AI specialists like Nebius and U.S. competitor CoreWeave (CRWV.O), opens new tab mostly focus on tech customers, but aim to become major cloud service providers in their own right.

Nebius ​CEO Arkady Volozh ​said the latest ⁠Meta deal would help "accelerate the build-out and growth of our core AI cloud business."

Nebius signed an initial $3 billion deal with ​Meta in November and a $17.4 billion deal with Microsoft in September.

In ​February, the ⁠fast-growing Nebius reported a fourth quarter net loss of $250 million on revenue of $228 million, and said it expected revenue to hit an annualized run rate of between $7 billion ⁠and $9 billion ​by the end of this year, from $1.25 billion ​at the end of 2025.

The company said on Monday that 2026 guidance remains unchanged.

Reporting by Aditya ​Soni in Bengaluru, Toby Sterling in Amsterdam; Editing by Bernadette Baum and Tomasz Janowski