Trump floats ‘friendly takeover’ of Cuba

President Trump on Friday suggested the U.S. could carry out a “friendly takeover” of Cuba, as the president has used a fuel blockade to increase the pressure on the communist regime in Havana.

“The Cuban government is talking with us. They’re in a big deal of trouble, as you know. They have no money, no anything right now,” Trump told reporters. “Maybe we’ll have a friendly takeover of Cuba. We could very well end up having a friendly takeover of Cuba.”

Trump imposed a fuel blockade on the island in an executive order at the end of January in a push to collapse the regime, which relies heavily on energy and food imports.

The United Nations’s top official for Cuba warned on Wednesday that daily life on the island is “becoming fragile” with increased strains on health care, water services and food distribution.

U.S. officials reportedly met Thursday with the grandson of 94-year-old former president Raúl Castro, considered the de facto leader of the totalitarian regime, on the sidelines of a conference in the Caribbean attended by Secretary of State Marco Rubio.

Castro’s grandson, Raúl Guillermo Rodriguez Castro, serves as his grandfather’s bodyguard and is believed to oversee Cuba’s armed forces’s conglomerate, known as GAESA, which controls much of the island’s economy. The Miami Herald reported that in 2024, GAESA had about $18 billion in assets and in unknown bank accounts.

The Cuban government has instituted emergency measures to deal with the U.S. fuel quarantine and is said to have between six and seven weeks of fuel left before falling into a major blackout.

Trump’s remarks come after a deadly confrontation Wednesday between the Cuban coast guard and a group of U.S. citizens, permanent residents and visa holders. At least four people aboard a boat were killed and others were wounded, taken into custody and accused of “terrorism” against the island.

Both governments have made statements seeming to cool tensions over the incident, emphasizing both sides are cooperating in clarifying what the Cuban government called “regrettable events.”

Add as preferred source on Google

Donald Trump Marco Rubio Raul Castro

---

Copyright 2026 Nexstar Media Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.