Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Nasdaq: GILD) today announced that it has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Arcellx (Nasdaq: ACLX) for $115 per share in cash at closing and one contingent value right of $5 per share, which represents an implied equity value of $7.8 billion payable at closing. Arcellx is a biotechnology company focused on delivering a new class of innovative immunotherapies for patients with cancer and other incurable diseases.

Kite, a Gilead company, and Arcellx have an existing collaboration to co-develop and co-commercialize Arcellx’s lead pipeline candidate, anitocabtagene autoleucel (anito-cel), an investigational BCMA-directed CAR T-cell therapy for patients with multiple myeloma. Despite advancements in treatment, many patients with multiple myeloma eventually relapse and require additional lines of therapy. As disease progresses, patients often experience diminishing responses, increasing toxicity and fewer viable options, especially those who are heavily pretreated or unable to tolerate existing therapies.

In clinical studies to date, anito-cel has demonstrated deep and durable responses with a predictable and manageable safety profile, addressing key challenges associated with current CAR T-cell therapies in multiple myeloma.

The BLA for anito-cel as a fourth-line treatment for patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma is supported by results from the Phase 1 study (NCT04155749) and the pivotal Phase 2 iMMagine1 study (NCT05396885) and has been accepted by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration with an anticipated Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) action date of December 23, 2026.

“This agreement reflects our conviction in the potential of anito-cel and our intention to move with speed so we can make the most of that potential for patients with multiple myeloma,” said Daniel O’Day, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Gilead Sciences. "Beyond the potential launch this year, anito-cel could become a foundational treatment for multiple myeloma over time, including earlier lines of therapy. In addition, the anito-cel D-domain BCMA binder could be important to our work in in vivo cell therapy, further strengthening our potential in oncology and inflammation.”

In addition to anito-cel, Arcellx’s D-Domain CAR technology platform has generated proprietary, target-binding domains with improved specificity and enhanced binding affinity that could potentially be used for next-generation CAR T-cell and bispecific therapies. There is potential to leverage the D‑domain BCMA binder in vivo cell therapy efforts.

“The story of Arcellx is one of innovation, passion, resilience and teamwork. I could not be prouder of our team, our contribution to the myeloma field, and the impact anito-cel and our D-Domain platform are poised to have for patients and clinicians,” said Rami Elghandour, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Arcellx. “We are fortunate to have found a world-class partner in Gilead, which has the expertise to carry forward Arcellx’s legacy. Kite is well-positioned to maximize access to anito-cel, benefiting more patients, and the company’s commitment to be the leader in cell therapy is one I admire. I’m grateful to our Board of Directors for this opportunity, our shareholders who supported our journey, our partners who believed in us, the patients and physicians who participated in our studies, and most of all, our team members who did the impossible and left an indelible mark on the future of medicine.”

Terms of the Transaction

The transaction was approved by both the Gilead and Arcellx Boards of Directors and is anticipated to close during the second quarter of 2026, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of customary closing conditions, including the tender of a number of shares of Arcellx common stock that, together with shares already owned by Gilead, equals at least a majority of the then-outstanding Arcellx shares, the receipt of regulatory approvals and other customary offer conditions. Gilead currently owns approximately 11.5 percent of Arcellx’s outstanding common stock.

Under the terms of the merger agreement entered into in connection with the transaction, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Gilead will commence a tender offer to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Arcellx’s common stock that Gilead does not already own for an offer price of (1) $115 per share in cash, which represents a 68 percent premium to Arcellx’s 30-day volume-weighted average share price as of February 20, 2026, plus (2) one non-transferable contingent value right (CVR) that entitles the holder to receive an additional $5 per CVR upon the achievement of cumulative global net sales of anito-cel of at least $6.0 billion from launch through year-end 2029. If the tender offer is successfully completed, Gilead will acquire all remaining shares of Arcellx not tendered in the offer through a second step merger for the same consideration as is paid in the tender offer.

Upon FDA approval of anito-cel, the proposed transaction is expected to be accretive to earnings per share in 2028 and thereafter.

BofA Securities, Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC are acting as financial advisors to Gilead. Ropes & Gray LLP is serving as legal counsel to Gilead. Centerview Partners LLC is acting as exclusive financial advisor to Arcellx. Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, P.C. is serving as legal counsel to Arcellx.