Day 6 of Middle East conflict — countries intercepting Iranian strikes, US ramps up campaign

McGurk: Iran is trying to 'create this sense of mayhem and chaos'

04:14 • Source: CNN

04:14

• New strikes in Iran: Israel said it had begun a “broad-scale wave of strikes” against Tehran. State media reported that Jomhuri Avenue, a major street in the capital, was hit.

• Panic in Beirut: Israel also announced it was targeting Hezbollah. Israel’s prior evacuation order for nearly all of southern Beirut, believed to house more than half a million people, raised fears to a new level.

• Iran’s attacks: Middle East countries are intercepting strikes as dawn breaks on the war’s seventh day. Iran is seeking to degrade air defenses by destroying US-made radars that detect missiles and drones, satellite images in the Arabian Peninsula suggest.

• US ramping up campaign: President Donald Trump said he had “no time limits” on how long the war could go on, with Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth saying it had “only just begun.”

Read more

All catch up

122 Posts

Iran’s Ministry of Intelligence says it targeted “separatist terrorist groups (that) intended to enter the country’s western borders” with the support of the United States. The ministry statement, reported by the country’s state media, is believed to have been referring to attacks by Iranian forces on Iraq-based Kurdish groups.

Iran’s ISNA News Agency reported on Thursday that explosions have been heard at the headquarters of forces in Iraqi Kurdistan.

It comes after sources told CNN that the CIA is working to arm Kurdish forces, with the aim of fomenting a popular uprising in Iran. The Trump administration has been in active discussions with Iranian opposition groups and Kurdish leaders in Iraq about providing them with military support, multiple people familiar with the plan told CNN.

On Thursday, Iran’s Ministry of Intelligence and Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps said they destroyed “a significant part of the positions and facilities of these mercenaries” and said that heavy losses were inflicted on them, likely referring to Iraq-based Kurdish groups. The Iranian ministry statement also claimed they were working in cooperation with Kurdish men in Iran and monitoring the country’s border areas.

For context: Iranian Kurdish armed groups have thousands of forces operating along the Iraq-Iran border, primarily in Iraq’s Kurdistan region. Several of the groups have released public statements since the beginning of the war hinting at imminent action and urging Iranian military forces to defect.

Meanwhile, several Iraqi Kurdish parties have denied any involvement in the Iran war.

Read more

Drone falls near airport in Azerbaijan

00:31 • Source: CNN

00:31

Drone attacks have injured two people and damaged the terminal building of an airport near the Iran-Azerbaijan border, Azerbaijani authorities said, the first strikes on the country since the beginning of the conflict.

The attacks took place around midday local time (3 a.m. ET), and another drone fell near a school in Shakarabad, Azerbaijan’s foreign ministry said in a statement Thursday.

The drones hit Azerbaijan’s exclave of Nakhchivan, which is separated from mainland Azerbaijan by Armenia.

“We strongly condemn these drone attacks launched from the territory of the Islamic Republic of Iran,” reads the statement.

“This attack against the territory of the Republic of Azerbaijan constitutes a violation of the norms and principles of international law and serves to increase tensions in the region,” added the ministry.

Iran’s armed forces denied launching drones at Azerbaijan and suggested the incident may have been a false-flag operation by Israel.

“Such actions by the fake Zionist regime to disrupt relations among Muslim countries through various means have a precedent, and according to investigations conducted, such an action was carried out to accuse the Islamic Republic of Iran by that regime,” the armed forces were cited as saying by Nour News.

Rising tensions: Azerbaijan and Iran are both majority Shiite Muslim nations, and millions of ethnic Azeris live in Iran.

However tensions between the two nations have risen recently as Azerbaijan has increased security cooperation with Israel.

Read more

Iran’s internet blackout has now passed 120 hours, with connectivity in the country flatlining at around 1% of its typical levels, according to independent watchdog organization NetBlocks.

Netblocks added that Iranian telecommunications companies are engaging in “Orwellian” behavior, threatening legal action against users attempting to access the global internet.

The move has made it difficult to obtain a full picture of what’s happening within Iran.

Read more

Missiles intercepted in Doha

00:33 • Source: CNN

00:33

Qatar has been “subjected to a missile attack,” the Ministry of Defence said in a post on Instagram, adding that air defense systems were intercepting the strike.

Intercepts in the skies over the capital Doha at around 11.55 a.m. local (03.55 a.m. ET) rattled buildings as booms rang out across the city, according to CNN journalists on the ground.

At least another two rounds of interceptions took place shortly after.

CNN staff in Doha did not receive an emergency alert ahead of the barrage.

Read more

Evacuation flights out of the Middle East have ramped up with thousands leaving the region as the US-Israeli war with Iran continues to cause aviation chaos.

Israel Government Press Office

Here’s the latest on evacuation flights:

- Rest of the world: Several countries have recommended their nationals shelter in place or leave the region. Japan said it will transport its citizens residing in Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, and the UAE by land to Riyadh and Muscat, where airports remain operational. India and Australia have also repatriated some of its nationals.
- Reunions: After days stranded in Dubai, some of the first passengers arrived home after airlines including Emirates and Virgin Atlantic resumed limited flights from the United Arab Emirates to cities such as New York, London, Paris, and Sydney.
- Bahrain repatriation: Bahrain’s national carrier Gulf Air successfully repatriated more than 400 transit passengers, it said Thursday.
- European efforts: The British foreign minister said the UK is working with airlines to boost evacuations, while France, Germany, Italy and the Czech Republic have also begun arranging flights out of the region.
- Canada evacuation: Canadian nationals in Israel will be bused to the Egyptian border. In Beirut, limited numbers are being put on planes. The government is also trying to arrange charter flights out of the UAE as the airspace begins to open, Canadian Foreign Minister Anita Anand said.
- Israel to reopen airport: Israel will begin gradually reopening its main international airport today for incoming flights. Evacuation flights have also departed other regional hubs, including Dubai and Jeddah.
- US diplomats told to leave: The US authorized non-emergency staff and their families to depart several Middle Eastern countries, and Qatar authorities are evacuating residents living near the US Embassy, after Iranian strikes this week targeted US facilities across the region.
- US evacuation: The first US evacuation flight left the Middle East after the Trump administration faced backlash for not having an evacuation plan ready. More than 17,500 US citizens have returned home from the Middle East since February 28.

Read more

A plume of smoke rises after a strike on the Iranian capital of Tehran on Thursday.

Explosions rocked Tehran again this morning leaving more residents unsure whether to leave or stay put, a man who fled the city told CNN.

Loud bangs were heard in the Iranian capital Thursday morning, the semi-official state news agency Tasnim reported.

The man – who fled Tehran with his wife, a doctor, a few nights ago – described the uncertainty of living under continuing attacks. “You never know what or who is a target.”

Earlier this week, a TV and radio antenna near their home was hit, shaking the entire neighborhood.

Now they are settled in a small town near Damavand, Iran’s tallest peak, he said the nights are filled with the sound of fighter jets, though no impacts have reached their area.

“A lot of friends and family are staying put in Tehran for now, because the thinking is no matter where you go, something there will be targeted,” he said.

Heading south means fearing foreign forces at the borders, while going north risks getting trapped on the congested Chalus highway, he added. “Many people are thinking it’s better to just stay where you are.”

Read more

Italy's Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni attends a press conference in Rome on January 23, 2026.

Italy is planning to send air defense aid to Gulf countries in the face of Iranian air strikes, Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni said on Thursday.

“Like the United Kingdom, France and Germany, Italy intends to send assistance to Gulf countries, specifically in the field of defense and in particular air defense,” Meloni told radio station RTL 102.5.

Read more

Iran’s Revolutionary Guards said Thursday that the Strait of Hormuz –– one of the world’s most important shipping lanes, which has seen traffic dry up since the war began –– is only closed to ships from the US, Israel, Europe and other Western allies.

If vessels belonging to the US, Israel, Europe “and their supporters … are observed, they will certainly be hit,” the IRGC warned.

The strait has been effectively closed since the US and Israel launched their joint operation against Iran on Saturday, sending oil prices surging and threatening to upend the global economy.

Read more

A U.S. submarine sinks Iranian frigate IRIS Dena in support of Operation Epic Fury off Sri Lanka's coast in the Indian Ocean on Wednesday.

The US submarine sinking of an Iranian warship in international waters has raised uneasy questions for key White House partner New Delhi, an analyst said, as the vessel was destroyed shortly after leaving an Indian port where it had completed joint naval exercises.

Sri Lanka’s foreign minister identified the vessel as the IRIS Dena. The frigate had been sailing home from an east Indian port, following a visit where it was welcomed by the Indian Navy last month. Over 80 people have been confirmed killed.

The attack took place in the Indian Ocean, thousands of kilometers away from the Gulf, where US and Israeli forces are striking Iran, and Tehran is retaliating with missile and drones.

It was the first time a US attack submarine had used a torpedo to sink a combat ship since 1945.

Why it matters for India: While the incident took place in international waters, it will likely rankle New Delhi because the attack took place in an area of ocean that India views as its backyard and it had only finished hosting the crew.

He noted that while the Iranian ship was in international waters, it was “going from an Indian fleet review, through what is not an active war zone, and definitely an area of India’s influence.”

India’s “non-negotiables” are “protecting commerce and energy routes, avoiding entanglement in US–Iran escalation, and preventing any normalization of third‑party kinetic actions so close to its maritime periphery,” he added. “All of them have been challenged by the US naval action,” Singh said.

India hasn’t publicly commented on the incident. CNN has reached out to its foreign ministry and navy for a response.

Read more

An intercepted missile hit the ground near the Kurdish-controlled city of Qamishli in northeastern Syria without causing any casualties. Reuters could not independently verify the source of the missile.

Intercepted missile lands near Syrian city

Video shows an intercepted missile that hit the ground near the Kurdish-controlled city of Qamishli in northeastern Syria without causing any casualties.

00:24 • Source: CNN

00:24

Read more

Cargo ships and tankers are seen off coast city of Fujairah, in the Strait of Hormuz in the northern Emirate on February 25.

The Middle East conflict continues to disrupt the global economy, with much of the upheaval caused by a chokehold in one of the world’s most important shipping lanes: the Strait of Hormuz.

The strait connects the oil-rich Persian Gulf to the rest of the world. Around 20% of global production flows through the waterway – but that has shuddered to a near-halt, with many ships stranded at anchor and avoiding the Strait.

In Asia, South Korea and Japan rely on imports of liquified natural gas from the Middle East, leaving their economies and markets particularly vulnerable. At least seven oil tankers carrying crucial South Korean supplies are unable to pass through the strait, a South Korean lawmaker said.

In the US, oil prices surged early this week, already beginning to hike gas prices as Americans struggle with affordability. But by Wednesday, prices paused their surge while US and European stocks rebounded

Maersk and Hapag-Lloyd, two of the world’s largest maritime cargo companies, have notified customers that they are no longer accepting most cargoes bound for ports in the Persian Gulf because of fighting in the region.

The chokehold threatens more than just oil or cargo. Six Gulf Arab nations – Oman, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Bahrain and Kuwait – import about 85% of their food, since their climate is too arid for large-scale farming.

These Gulf states have few alternatives, since maritime food shipments must pass through Hormuz. But most have large emergency grain and food reserves that could last several months.

Read more

Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney said he “can never categorically rule out participation” in the US-Israeli war with Iran after previously saying Canada would not take part.

Canadian PM doesn't rule out participation in war with Iran

Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney said he "can never categorically rule out participation" in the US-Israeli war with Iran after previously saying Canada would not take part.

01:22 • Source: CNN

01:22

Read more

Iran’s military leaders claim they did not fire any missiles toward Turkey, state media reported, after NATO air defenses intercepted what Turkey said was a missile launched from Iran on Wednesday.

Turkish officials on Wednesday had said the missile traveled from Iran through the airspace of Iraq and Syria, heading toward Turkish airspace, before it was destroyed.

The incident on Wednesday was believed to be the first time NATO forces have intercepted an Iranian missile traveling towards a member country’s airspace since the Middle East conflict broke out over the weekend.

Read more

Iran’s foreign minister has decried the deadly US torpedo attack on an Iranian warship as an “atrocity,” which he warned the US will come to regret.

At least 87 people were killed, and a number remaining missing, after the IRIS Dena sank off the coast of Sri Lanka on Wednesday.

“The US has perpetrated an atrocity at sea, 2,000 miles away from Iran’s shores,” Iran’s Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said on X.

“Frigate Dena, a guest of India’s Navy carrying almost 130 sailors, was struck in international waters without warning,” he added.

US Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth confirmed a US submarine had torpedoed an Iranian ship in the Indian Ocean on Wednesday.

Sri Lanka has recovered scores of bodies and its Navy rescued 32 people –– leaving 11 people unaccounted for, according to Araghchi’s figure for the number of sailors onboard at the time.

Read more

People fill up their cars at a gas station in Seoul, South Korea, on Wednesday.

At least seven oil tankers carrying crucial South Korean supplies are unable to pass through the Strait of Hormuz as conflict rages in the region, the office of South Korean lawmaker Kim Young Bae told CNN Thursday.

Kim made the comments after an emergency meeting with parliamentary members and major industry players including Samsung Electronics, Hyundai Motor, LG, HD Hyundai Oil Bank, SK, GS Caltex and Hanwha Ocean.

Iran has threatened to attack any ships that attempt to navigate the Strait of Hormuz, through which 20% of the world’s oil passes.

Kim said the vessels, carrying millions of barrels of crude oil bound for South Korea were stuck, threatening potential supply shortages, and he urged the government to step in to strengthen energy security.

More than 70% of the country’s crude oil and about 20% of its gas imports come from the Middle East, according to the Korea International Trade Association (KITA) data.

South Korean President Lee Jae Myung on Thursday urged ministers to swiftly implement emergency measures to stabilize supplies of crude oil and gas.

Read more

After a US-Israel strike killed Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Khamenei, the most powerful position in the Islamic Republic was left open. CNN’s International Correspondent Isobel Yeung reports.

Who will be Iran's next Supreme Leader?

After a US-Israel strike killed Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Khamenei, the most powerful position in the Islamic Republic was left open. Amidst external pressure, Iran's clerical regime is quickly working to decide who will succeed him. CNN's International Correspondent Isobel Yeung reports.

02:46 • Source: CNN

02:46

Read more

CNN’s Erin Burnett talks to Reza Sayah, a journalist based in Tehran, about what he’s seeing and hearing from people in Iran.

Iranian-American journalist in Tehran recounts bombardment

Speaking to CNN's Erin Burnett, former CNN correspondent Reza Sayah shares his experience during the US-Israeli strikes on Iran. He fled Tehran with his daughter for safety outside the capital.

01:11 • Source: CNN

01:11

Read more

idf via telegram, reuters, social media

Iran and its proxies kept up attacks on US allies in the Gulf on Thursday morning as the war entered a sixth day and expanded to impact ships, with one sinking in international waters off Sri Lanka.

Here’s what we’re seeing:

International waters: Over 80 people have been killed after an Iranian warship sank in the Indian Ocean, Sri Lankan officials said, after a US submarine fired a torpedo.

Iran: Israeli military launched a wave of flyover strikes across Tehran targeting “military infrastructure belonging to the Iranian regime,” the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) said Wednesday night. The latest strikes were Israel’s 11th wave of attacks against Tehran since February 28. More than 1,100 people have been killed in Iran since the war began, according to the US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency.

Israel: Iran launched three waves of missiles towards Israel overnight, according to Israel’s military. The latest barrage, just before 4 a.m., triggered sirens in Jerusalem and central Israel. Hours earlier, Iran and the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah, which is backed by Iran, carried out their first coordinated attacks on Israel of the war, the Israeli military told CNN.

Lebanon: Israel’s overnight strikes hit several command centers in the Lebanese capital, Beirut, belonging to Hezbollah, according to the Israel Defense Forces.

Saudi Arabia: The kingdom intercepted and destroyed four waves of missiles approaching central and northern regions, the defense ministry said. It did not specify where the weapons launched from.

Bahrain: Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps launched a drone attack on an Amazon data center, Iran’s state-affiliated Fars News Agency reported. The attack was carried out to identify how such centers support the military and intelligence activities of Tehran’s adversaries, Fars said.

Kuwait: Oil is leaking from a tanker anchored offshore after a nearby explosion. The crew reported seeing a large explosion on the vessel’s left-hand side before a small craft left the area, a British marine tracking agency said.

Read more

At least 1,114 civilians in Iran have been killed since the war began on Saturday, according to the US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRANA).

That toll includes 183 children, most of them under the age of 10, according to the latest figures released by HRANA on Thursday. The organization is still working to verify more than 900 reported deaths.

Some of the latest strikes in the past day have reportedly hit civilian sites protected by humanitarian international law, HRANA added –– including a high school and several medical sites and clinics.

The death toll for this latest conflict is now approaching the total toll of last summer’s 12-day war between Iran, Israel and the US – which HRANA estimates killed 1,190 people in Iran.

The head of Iran’s National Emergency Organization said as many as 6,000 people have been wounded so far.

Dozens of people, including six US troops, have also been killed elsewhere in the Middle East by Tehran’s retaliatory strikes, according to local authorities.

Read more

Smoke rises from the site of an Israeli airstrike that targeted an area in Beirut's southern neighborhood on Thursday.

Israel’s overnight strikes into Thursday hit several command centers in the Lebanese capital Beirut belonging to the Iran-backed militant group Hezbollah, according to the Israel Defense Forces.

The IDF described the attack as “a wave of intelligence-based strikes,” saying one of the command centers had been used by Hezbollah’s aerial unit.

Israel has battered parts of the country all week, after the Iran-backed military group fired projectiles from Lebanon into Israel. The IDF has issued evacuation orders for dozens of villages and settlements in southern Lebanon, as well as near Beirut.

Outside of Iran, Lebanon has had the highest death toll since the latest Middle East conflagration exploded.

Read more