2026-03-18 | What to know about Joe Kent, Trump counterterrorism chief who resigned over Iran war - CBS News: Joe Kent resigned Tuesday as director of the National Counterterrorism Center, after being a staunch Trump supporter since the 2016 campaign, through the 2020 election defeat and the Jan. 6 riots, but said in a resignation letter posted on X that Iran “posed no imminent threat to our nation” and that “we started this war due to pressure from Israel and its powerful American lobby.” Kent, 45, a special forces combat veteran with ties to right-wing extremists and a two-time failed congressional candidate, said in his letter to Mr. Trump that “high-ranking Israeli officials and influential members of the American media deployed a misinformation campaign ... to encourage a war with Iran.” Mitch McConnell called the comment “virulent anti-Semitism” and said Kent had failed his pledge “to lead with integrity and accountability.” Tulsi Gabbard said the decision on whether Iran posed a threat was up to Trump, who on Feb. 28 had said the first airstrikes were to eliminate “imminent threats from the Iranian regime.” CBS also reported Wednesday that the FBI is investigating Kent in connection with alleged leaks of classified information, with the probe beginning before his resignation. The piece catalogued Kent’s far-right associations: a 2022 consulting relationship with Proud Boys member Graham Jorgensen, work with Patriot Prayer founder Joey Gibson, and a Senate-hearing admission that one campaign arranged a call involving Nick Fuentes. It listed Kent’s claims that the COVID vaccine was “an experimental gene therapy,” that Fauci should face murder charges, that the 2020 election was stolen, and that Jan. 6 rioters were “political prisoners”; he was confirmed in July by a 52-44 vote, with every Democrat and GOP Sen. Thom Tillis opposing. It also noted Kent’s military service: retired Green Beret, 11 combat missions mostly in Iraq, CIA paramilitary officer after retiring in 2018, and counterterrorism adviser to Trump’s 2020 reelection campaign; his first wife, Shannon Kent, a Navy cryptologist killed by a suicide bomber in Syria in 2019, had served multiple Iraq tours and could speak seven languages. Kent had worked as Gabbard’s chief of staff, was nominated by Trump in February 2025, and during hearings focused more on cartels than the Middle East, including his role in pressing analysts to revise a Tren de Aragua assessment and his Signal-chat involvement in March 2025 discussions of Hegseth’s Houthi strike timing. ### 2026-03-18 | The Blogs: Counting Fronts | Sabine Sterk | The Times of Israel: In “Counting Fronts,” published 2026-03-18, Sabine Sterk, identified as “CEO of Time to Stand Up for Israel,” argues that the usual “seven fronts” list for Israel—Gaza, Lebanon, Iran, Syria, Iraq, Yemen and “the information war”—is too neat, because the conflict spills into cities worldwide. She asks what to call the Bondi Beach attack in Sydney, a synagogue explosion in the United States, Jews hunted after a football match in Amsterdam, or an assault on a Jewish school, and then lists places as a “map” of attacks on Jews and Israeli targets: Paris, Toulouse, Nice, Brussels, Antwerp, Berlin, Halle, Munich, Frankfurt, London, Manchester, Copenhagen, Stockholm, Gothenburg, Oslo, Amsterdam, Vienna, Zurich, Rome, Milan, Madrid, Barcelona, Athens, Istanbul, Moscow, Kyiv, Budapest, Prague, Warsaw, New York City, Los Angeles, Pittsburgh, San