Day 8 of Middle East conflict — Trump signals plans to escalate attacks, Iran vows to continue retaliatory strikes | CNN, Updated 12:26 AM EST, Sun March 8, 2026: CNN reported on the war’s eighth day that President Donald Trump signaled attacks on Iran would intensify, while Iran vowed to keep retaliatory strikes going. In Tehran, CNN’s team heard new bomb blasts Saturday night as the Israel Defense Forces announced a “wave of strikes”; the Iranian state-affiliated Fars News Agency said US and Israeli bombing targeted an oil refinery in southern Tehran, and CNN crews saw a large fire in the south of the city where oil and gas installations are located. The strikes lasted about an hour, with thuds in the east, south and northwest. The report said at least four people were killed in central Beirut when a strike hit a hotel building; witnesses also heard explosions in Bahrain, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, and debris from an intercepted projectile over Dubai killed a driver, while CNN staff were evacuated when debris from a separate interception damaged a high-rise in the Marina area. The Trump administration declared an emergency and bypassed Congress to immediately sell 12,000 bombs to Israel, specifically “12,000 BLU-110A/B general purpose, 1,000-pound bomb bodies,” valued at more than $151 million. A member of Iran’s Assembly of Experts told Fars a new supreme leader could be chosen within “the next 24 hours,” while Iran’s Foreign Minister Abbas Aragchi said a US attack on a desalination plant off Oman’s coast had affected water supply in “30 villages.” Kuwait Petroleum Corporation said Kuwait cut crude production, and an unidentified airstrike in Iraq killed a member of the Popular Mobilization Forces and wounded three others. Trump said he would attend a dignified transfer at Dover Air Force Base in Delaware for six American service members killed in an Iranian drone strike in Kuwait—Maj. Jeffery O’Brien, Capt. Cody Khork, Chief Warrant Officer 3 Robert Marzan, Sgt. 1st Class Nicole Amor, Sgt. 1st Class Noah Tietjens and Sgt. Declan Coady. It also noted over a dozen US charter flights evacuated thousands of Americans from the Middle East, US gas prices rose 9 cents to “$3.41 a gallon,” the highest since August 2024, and the death toll in Iran since last Saturday had reached 1,172 civilians, according to HRANA. ### Iran's foreign minister rejects calls for a ceasefire: 'We need to continue fighting for the sake of our people', 2026-03-08: In NBC News’ “Meet the Press,” Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi rejected a ceasefire and said Iran needs “to continue fighting for the sake of our people,” accusing the U.S. and Israel of “killing our people,” “girl students,” and “attacking hospitals.” He said Israel and the U.S. had already shattered the ceasefire that ended last year’s “12-day war,” adding that “there needs to be a permanent end to the war,” otherwise “we need to continue fighting for the sake of our people and our security.” He acknowledged “cooperation between Iran and Russia” was “not something new,” and said “they are helping us in many different directions,” but did not confirm Russian intelligence was helping Iran locate U.S. forces. Mike Waltz, in a separate NBC interview, said there was “no doubt President Trump will deal with it accordingly” and described the U.S. military as “decimating Iran’s air force, air defenses, navy, ground forces, command and control.” Araghchi said Iran was not “attacking our neighbors” intentionally,