Watch: Trump's full statement on U.S. strikes against Iran - CBS News, 2026-02-28: President Trump announced early Saturday morning that the U.S. is conducting "a massive and ongoing operation to prevent this very wicked, radical dictatorship from threatening America and our core national security interests," and his full remarks framed the action as part of a broader effort to stop Iran from ever getting a nuclear weapon and to protect U.S. interests. ### Trump announces beginning of 'major combat operations in Iran', 2026-02-28: Trump confirmed the strikes in a Truth Social video message, saying "they can never have a nuclear weapon," and the article centered on his declaration that "major combat operations in Iran" had begun. ### Read Trump's full statement on Iran attacks | PBS News, 2026-02-28: In an 8-minute Truth Social video, Trump said the U.S. has begun "major combat operations in Iran," claimed Iran has continued developing its nuclear program and missiles that could reach the U.S., cited decades of Iranian hostility including the 444-day U.S. Embassy hostage crisis in Tehran, the 1983 Beirut barracks bombing that killed 241 Americans, and the USS Cole attack, and said "Operation Midnight Hammer" last June had obliterated Fordo, Natanz and Isfahan; he warned the operation was a "massive and ongoing operation," threatened to "destroy their missiles" and "annihilate their navy," said U.S. personnel could suffer casualties, told IRGC members and the armed forces to lay down their weapons for "complete immunity" or face "certain death," and urged Iranians to "take over your government" because "bombs will be dropping everywhere." ### UK forces join 'regional defensive operations' as US, Israel strike Iran | Reuters, 2026-02-28: Keir Starmer said from 10 Downing Street that British forces and planes were taking part in "coordinated regional defensive operations" to protect British people, interests and allies, not the U.S.-Israeli strikes themselves; he said Britain had stepped up protection for bases and personnel "to their highest level," insisted Iran "must never be allowed to develop nuclear weapons," said talks with France and Germany followed a COBRA meeting, and noted Britain had warned against travel to Israel and the Palestinian territories while moving embassy staff from Tel Aviv. ### Israel and US launch strikes on Iran - AL-Monitor: The Middle Eastʼs leading independent news source since 2012, 2026-02-28: Reuters-reported details said Israel launched a "pre-emptive attack" and U.S. strikes were underway, with explosions heard in Tehran and sirens in Israel around 8.15 a.m. local time; Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz said the operation was to remove threats to Israel, an Israeli defense official said it had been planned for months with Washington and the launch date set weeks ago, Israel closed schools, workplaces and its airspace, U.S. and Iran had been talking in February, and Tehran warned it would retaliate against American bases in the region. ### Iran Strikes: Israel Has Long Sought a US War on Khamenei’s Regime. What’s Next? - Bloomberg, 2026-02-28: By Ethan Bronner at 6:06 PM UTC, the piece said the U.S. was now acting with Israel in a first-ever jointly planned bombardment aimed at regime change, after years of Israeli pressure on Washington dating back to 2003; it said several top Iranian leaders appeared to have been killed, including in a morning strike on a Tehran meeting of intelligence officials. ### Could the US-Israel war on Iran drag on? - AL