February 21, 2026 — Trump administration updates | CNN: Updated 9:06 AM EST, Sun February 22, 2026. President Donald Trump said he’ll increase his new global tariffs to 15% after Friday’s Supreme Court ruling that duties he issued using sweeping emergency authorities were illegal; the new levies can take effect for a maximum of 150 days unless Congress approves an extension, and Trump has signaled prolonged litigation over refunds of “billions of dollars” companies paid. The roundup also said Trump was sending a hospital boat to Greenland “to take care of the many people who are sick, and not being taken care of there,” though it was unclear what he meant; he has long sought U.S. control of Greenland and appointed Landry as special envoy in December. Trump also said he was mulling a limited military strike against Iran to pressure Tehran into a nuclear deal, while Democrats urged him not to act without consulting Congress. The piece also covered Trump praising governors at a Saturday black-tie dinner after a clash with the National Governors Association over invitations, with “Eighteen Democratic governors” boycotting, and a Washington, DC rally marking the fourth anniversary of Russia’s war on Ukraine, where EU ambassador Jovita Neliupšienė and Ukrainian deputy chief of mission Denys Sienik called for more U.S. intervention, Tomahawk missiles, and sanctions; organizer Nadiya Shaporynska said Ukraine wants “just peace” and “lasting peace.” It noted the Port of Los Angeles’ Gene Seroka warning of “a bumpy road” and “hiring has been light, capital investment weak,” Trump revoking his endorsement of Rep. Jeff Hurd in favor of challenger Shellie Scheppelman after Hurd backed tariff repeal, the tariff order’s exemptions for some Canada, Mexico and Latin America imports under USMCA and for passenger vehicles, agricultural products, electronics, metals and minerals, plus Trump authorizing FEMA aid for Washington, DC’s Potomac sewage spill and the Justice Department firing an interim U.S. attorney. It also quoted Trump calling Justice Brett Kavanaugh his “new hero” after Kavanaugh dissented in the tariff case, and included reactions from Andy Beshear, JB Pritzker and other Democrats demanding refunds, as well as legal commentary that consumers are unlikely to get direct checks. ### With U.S. forces in position, Trump mulls his options for Iran: By Greg Myre, Saturday, February 21, 2026 • 6:00 AM EST, Heard on Weekend Edition Saturday. NPR said Trump still had not decided whether to strike Iran, but an American military buildup over the past month had given him “a wide range of options,” with an expansive naval and air presence across the Middle East capable of sustaining a bombing campaign for weeks or longer. The story laid out three main possibilities: returning to negotiations, with Iranian foreign minister Abbas Araghchi saying on MS NOW’s Morning Joe, “There is no military solution for Iran’s nuclear program. The only solution is diplomacy”; a limited strike and pause, with Trump saying Friday, “I guess I can say I am considering”; or a much larger regime-change operation using two aircraft carriers, more than a dozen warships, and at least a couple of hundred warplanes in the region. It stressed that Trump had not given a major public case for war, had not sought formal congressional support, or built an international coalition beyond Israel. ### Trump brings in new 10% tariff as Supreme Court rejects his global import taxes | 21 February 2026. The article said Trump imposed a new 10% global tariff to replace ones struck down by the Supreme Court, called the ruling “terrible,” and lashed out at