=== ARTICLE 8db18588e3e3 | 2026-03-02 | Trump urges regime change as Iran's supreme leader is killed after U.S., Israel attack === Trump urges regime change as Iran's supreme leader is killed after U.S., Israel attack. Three U.S. service members were killed in action and five others were seriously wounded, the U.S. military said. The core event was a joint U.S.-Israeli offensive, dubbed “Operation Epic Fury,” that began at 1:15 a.m. ET Saturday (9:45 a.m. in Tehran) and killed Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei in Tehran, leaving “for the first time in 37 years” a leaderless capital; Trump called the strikes “ahead of schedule,” said there could “likely be more” American casualties, and urged the IRGC, Iranian military and police to “lay down your arms and receive full immunity or face certain death.” Khamenei’s death triggered mourning and celebration in Tehran, while Israel, Iran, Hezbollah and U.S. allies exchanged strikes across the region: Hezbollah retaliated for Khamenei’s killing by firing at an Israeli missile defense site south of Haifa, Israel hit Hezbollah targets in southern Lebanon, and Lebanon’s health ministry said Israeli strikes in southern Lebanon killed at least 31 Lebanese citizens and injured 149 others. The piece also reported the U.S. Embassy in Kuwait urging Americans to shelter in place because of missile and drone threats, the U.S. Embassy in Bahrain closing “until further notice,” oil prices surging 12% for U.S. crude and 14% for Brent, and air travel disruptions and embassy warnings across the Gulf. It noted Congress would receive classified briefings Tuesday from Marco Rubio, Pete Hegseth, John Ratcliffe and Gen. Dan Caine, and that the three U.S. service members killed were part of an Army sustainment unit based in Kuwait. It also said the governor of Minab county reported the bodies of 165 victims recovered from the Shajareh Tayyebeh girls’ school in southern Iran, while Malala Yousafzai condemned the attack on the school and Dawn Staley said South Carolina was trying to get former players Tiffany Mitchell, Destiny Littleton and Mikiah Herbert Harrigan home from Israel. Trump repeated that the U.S. would not allow Iran to develop long-range missiles and nuclear weapons, and later NBC and other reports described retaliation on Bahrain, Qatar, Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Tel Aviv and Beit Shemesh, where Magen David Adom said at least eight people were killed and 28 taken to hospitals. ### ARTICLE 88a89d9e280c | 2026-03-02 | Iran conflict widens to Lebanon, Kuwait mistakenly downs US jets | Reuters Iran conflict widens to Lebanon, Kuwait mistakenly downs US jets | Reuters. Reuters said the U.S. and Israeli air war against Iran widened on Monday, with Israel attacking Lebanon in response to Hezbollah strikes and Iran continuing attacks on Gulf states hosting U.S. bases. It said Trump told allies the operation could continue for weeks and that it was unclear who was in charge in Iran after the killing of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Central Command said Kuwait mistakenly shot down three American F-15E fighter jets during an Iranian attack; all six crew members ejected and were safely recovered. Reuters said the U.S. military had struck more than 1,250 targets in Iran and destroyed 11 Iranian ships, while six U.S. service personnel had been killed so far, all in Iran’s retaliatory attacks over the weekend on Kuwait. It reported Israel warning of imminent attacks on towns in Lebanon and saying it had attacked the complex housing Iran’s