245c568d8a16 | 2026-03-11 | Texas race: Trump leaned toward endorsing Cornyn. Then the leaks started — and Paxton made a ‘genius move’ | CNN Politics: Donald Trump was leaning last week toward endorsing Texas GOP Sen. John Cornyn, but sources said the plan leaked to the press and stalled; then Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton announced Friday he might drop out of the runoff if the Senate passed Trump’s voting restrictions bill, the “SAVE America Act,” if Republicans would lift the filibuster. White House officials called Paxton’s ploy a “genius move,” and Trump then tied any endorsement to passage of the bill, which would add new voter ID requirements, restrictions on mail-in voting, and a ban on transgender identity surgeries for minors. Cornyn narrowly edged Paxton in the primary but neither hit 50%, forcing a 12-week runoff with a March 18 at 5 p.m. CT withdrawal deadline. Sen. John Thune, who wants Cornyn to win to protect the GOP Senate majority, has resisted nuking the filibuster and said “Cornyn is one of 53 Republican senators” and opposition to changing the rule “runs very, very deep”; Thune’s office and the White House declined comment, while Trump said Thune “has got to be a leader.” ### b9b988790b6f | 2026-03-11 | Breaking News, Latest News and Videos | CNN: A live breaking-news package on March 11 highlighted that as oil prices soared the US might take steps to boost supply, cited disputes over Trump’s claim the US “knew nothing” about an Iran gas field strike, and linked to explainers on the South Pars gas field and on the global-economy effects of strikes on the world’s largest gas field. It also noted Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent saying the US may “unsanction” some Iranian oil and conduct another reserve release. ### 735a52834977 | 2026-03-11 | Putin finds opportunity in Trump’s war with Iran | CNN: In this analysis published Mar 11, 2026, 12:00 AM ET, Nathan Hodge argued that Vladimir Putin sees opportunity in Trump’s war with Iran even as Russia officially condemned the US-Israeli campaign that killed Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. The article said Putin’s first call with Trump since December, on Monday, lasted an hour and was described by Kremlin aide Yury Ushakov as “very substantive,” covering the Middle East war and Ukraine; Trump said Putin “wants to be helpful” but that “you could be more helpful by getting the Ukraine-Russia war over with.” The piece linked higher oil prices—Brent above $100 per barrel, experts warning of $150 by end of March if the Strait of Hormuz disruptions continue—to a boost for Russia’s export revenues, noting the US gave Indian refiners a 30-day waiver to buy Russian oil stranded at sea despite past sanctions on Russia’s two biggest oil firms and secondary tariffs on India. It also said Russia has defense ties with Iran and intelligence reporting suggests Moscow is providing Tehran intelligence on US assets in the Gulf; Putin has spoken with Bahrain’s King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa, UAE President Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Qatari Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani and Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, while Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky offered expertise on countering Iranian Shahed drones. ### 43c865b30d0a | 2026-03-11 | Breaking News, Latest News and Videos | CNN: CNN’s breaking item reported that