February 28, 2026 | February 28, 2026 — US-Israeli strikes on Iran | CNN: CNN’s minute-by-minute account said Tehran launched fresh retaliatory attacks after confirming the death of decades-long leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei in US-Israeli strikes, while the UAE said three people were killed in Iran’s retaliatory strikes — nationals of Pakistan, Nepal and Bangladesh — after Iranian drones got through air defenses, with at least 58 other people suffering minor injuries. The UAE Defense Ministry said Iran fired "165 ballistic missiles" at the UAE, of which "152 were destroyed" and "13 fell into the sea," plus "541 drones" with "506 intercepted" and "35" falling inside the country; it also said "two cruise missiles" were detected and destroyed. In Israel, police said the death toll rose to six after a direct Iranian missile hit a residential building near Jerusalem, with more than 20 hospitalized, while emergency service Magen David Adom said nearly 20 were injured, including two critically and a 10-year-old girl. Abu Dhabi’s media office said debris from an intercepted Iranian drone damaged a complex housing the Israeli embassy in Abu Dhabi, injuring a woman and her child and damaging the facade of Etihad Towers. The story also reported an IRGC claim of another wave of missiles and drones, smoke near a port in Abu Dhabi, Pope Leo XIV expressing "deep concern" and warning of the "spiral of violence," Israeli military checks on a reported strike on a girls’ school in Minab, Iran, and claims by local officials of "148" dead and "95 wounded." CNN said Israel claimed it killed "40 senior commanders," including Chief of Staff Lt. Gen. Abdoorahim Mousavi, and dismantled aerial defenses in western and central Iran. It also quoted Chinese FM Wang Yi calling the attack "unacceptable," EU foreign policy chief Kaja Kallas calling Khamenei’s death a "defining moment," and North Korea decrying "illegal aggression." The Strait of Hormuz disruption led Hapag-Lloyd to suspend all vessel transit; Oman said an oil tanker "Skylight" was attacked five nautical miles off Masandam, injuring four, while UKMTO reported two incidents off Oman and no formal closure. Iranian clerics Makarem Shirazi and Nouri Hamedani issued calls for jihad and a fatwa. Air travel was thrown into chaos: Etihad suspended Abu Dhabi flights until March 2, Qatar Airways paused operations, Lufthansa halted flights to Tel Aviv, Beirut, Amman, Erbil and Tehran until March 7, and FlightAware counted "7,716 flights" delayed and "2,280" cancelled globally by 6 a.m. ET. The article also said UAE, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Israel, Bahrain and Qatar closed airspaces, Dubai felt “like it’s Covid days,” and Bahrain reported an "incident" at the Crowne Plaza in Manama, with the U.S. embassy saying hotels might be future targets. ### February 28, 2026 | Why the US and Israel attacked Iran; what we know so far | CNN: CNN said joint US-Israeli attacks killed Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran’s supreme leader for nearly four decades, and that President Donald Trump said bombing would continue "uninterrupted throughout the week or, as long as necessary to achieve our objective of PEACE THROUGHOUT THE MIDDLE EAST AND, INDEED, THE WORLD!" The story said Iran retaliated with an unprecedented wave of strikes across the Middle East, including Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates, and that Pezeshkian called "bloodshed and revenge" Iran’s "legitimate right and