Who is Mojtaba Khamenei, possible candidate to replace father as Iran leader? | 2026-03-04: Mojtaba Khamenei was named to lead Iran on Monday after his father, Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, was killed in U.S.-Israeli airstrikes; he was elected by the 88-member Assembly of Experts, despite father-to-son succession being traditionally frowned upon in Shiite clerical politics after the 1979 revolution overthrew Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi and Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini founded the Islamic Republic. President Trump called Mojtaba an “unacceptable” choice in an Axios interview on Thursday, saying, “Khamenei’s son is unacceptable to me. We want someone that will bring harmony and peace to Iran.” Mojtaba is believed alive and in hiding after his wife, Zahra Haddad Abdel, was also killed in the strikes. Born in Mashhad in 1969, he moved to Tehran, fought in the Iran-Iraq war with the IRGC in 1987-88, worked in Tehran while his father ruled, and was described in WikiLeaks cables as “the power behind the robes”; a 2008 cable said regime insiders saw him as “a plausible candidate for shared leadership of Iran upon his father’s demise.” The U.N. sanctioned him in 2019 for advancing his father’s “destabilizing regional ambitions and oppressive domestic objectives,” and he was accused of backing Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s 2005 election and 2009 reelection. Other possible successors mentioned were Hassan Khomeini, Hassan Rouhani, Ayatollah Alireza Arafi, and Ayatollah Mohammed Mehdi Mirbagheri; Rep. Yassamin Ansari said military force alone would not secure a democratic future. ### Meet Mojtaba Khamenei, 'the power behind the robes' and presumptive favorite to assume power as Iran's Supreme Leader | March 4, 2026, 7:55 AM ET: Fortune/AP said Mojtaba Khamenei, son of Iran’s late Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, had long been considered a contender to become Iran’s next paramount ruler, even before an Israeli strike killed his father at the start of the war last week, despite never holding elected or appointed office. ### Who is Mojtaba Khamenei, Iran's new supreme leader? | March 9 (Reuters): Reuters reported on March 9 that the 56-year-old mid-ranking cleric was chosen by Iran’s Assembly of Experts to succeed his late father as supreme leader, more than a week after Ali Khamenei was killed in an air strike; an official said the selected candidate had to be “hated by the enemy,” and another said, “Even the Great Satan (U.S.) has mentioned his name,” referring to Trump’s “unacceptable” remark. Mojtaba, born in 1969 in Mashhad, studied in Qom, holds the rank of Hojjatoleslam, has never held formal office, has close ties to the IRGC, opposed reformers engaging the West, was a “gatekeeper” for his father, and was sanctioned by the U.S. Treasury in 2019 for representing Khamenei in an official capacity despite never being elected or appointed. He was seen behind Ahmadinejad’s 2005 rise and 2009 reelection, with Mehdi Karroubi accusing him of acting like “a master’s son.” His wife, killed in the airstrikes, was the daughter of hardliner former parliament speaker Gholamali Haddadadel. ### Who is Mojtaba Khamenei? A son of Iran