US and Venezuela agree to reestablish diplomatic relations in major shift after Maduro’s ouster | 2026-03-05: The AP reported from CARACAS, Venezuela that the United States and Venezuela agreed on Thursday to reestablish diplomatic relations, a major shift after relations were cut off in 2019 during Donald Trump’s first administration when Nicolás Maduro closed embassies after U.S. support for opposition lawmaker Juan Guaidó, then interim-president claimant. The State Department said talks were “focused on helping the Venezuelan people move forward through a phased process that creates the conditions for a peaceful transition to a democratically elected government.” The move followed a U.S. military operation that deposed former President Nicolás Maduro in January, after which Trump officials visited the oil-rich country; Interior Secretary Doug Burgum spent a two-day visit focused on mining, following a February visit by Energy Secretary Chris Wright on oil potential. Acting President Delcy Rodríguez, formerly Maduro’s vice president, said the steps “will strengthen relations between our two countries,” and the government said reestablished ties “will contribute to strengthening understanding and opening opportunities for a positive and mutually beneficial relationship,” adding that the relations should result in “the social and economic happiness of the Venezuelan people.” The article noted the administration’s pressure for reforms, including opening the oil sector to foreign companies, and that Rodríguez’s government approved an amnesty law releasing politicians, activists, lawyers and others. It also said opposition leader and 2025 Nobel Peace Prize winner María Corina Machado said on Sunday she will return in coming weeks and that elections will be held in Venezuela. ### Presidential Stakes - Frontline | 2026-03-05: no body text was provided beyond the title. ### Iranian clerics convene to choose Ayatollah successor : NPR | 2026-03-05: NPR said a panel of 88 clerics, the council of experts, is meeting virtually because of war to choose a successor to Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who was killed in an Israeli strike, and that the front-runner is his 56-year-old son Mojtaba Khamenei. The story said names under consideration included the grandson of Ayatollah Khomeini, some hard-liners and moderates, and quoted Iran specialist Afshon Ostovar saying Mojtaba is “kind of an unknown quantity” but closely tied to the IRGC and associated with the 2009 crackdown. Ostovar said if Mojtaba is chosen it signals continuity and preservation of the status quo, while Ali Vaez of the International Crisis Group said “The Second Republic, headed by Ayatollah Khamenei since 1989, is gone” and that the next regime would be “transformed” and would require “fundamental structural changes.” Jonathan Panikoff said the balance of power has shifted toward the Guards, warning the system could resemble “a military dictatorship with a fig leaf to a religious supreme leader.” ### Vietnam Trade Deficit Narrows Even as Exports Miss Estimates - Bloomberg | 2026-03-05: Bloomberg reported that Vietnam’s trade deficit narrowed in February to $1.05 billion from $1.78 billion in January, according to the National Statistics Office in Hanoi on Friday, and below the Bloomberg survey estimate of $2.03 billion. It said exports and imports both grew less than expected and consumer prices spiked in a holiday-affected month. ### Nature Search | 2026-03-05: this item is a search-results dump listing many article titles and dates, including “Cost-effective plant-based medium for enhanced spore production of B. amyloliquefaciens CN12 for biofertilizer application” (ResearchOpen Access05 Mar 2026