Trump sends war powers notification to Congress, 2026-03-02, reported that Trump sent a war powers notification to Senate President Pro Tempore Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, informing Congress of “military action taken on February 28, 2026, against the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran,” and the letter said that despite Trump’s “repeated efforts to achieve a diplomatic solution to Iran’s malign behavior, the threat to the United States and its allies and partners became untenable.” The article said the notice was sent to comply with the War Powers Act, which requires a president to alert Congress when U.S. forces are deployed “into hostilities or into situations where imminent involvement in hostilities is clearly indicated by the circumstances,” and noted the law’s 60-day clock plus an optional 30-day extension. It also said Trump told the White House the operation had been projected to last “four to five weeks” but could go “far longer,” while Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth insisted it would not be “endless,” and Secretary of State Marco Rubio said the president won’t “rule out anything,” including ground forces. The piece described Iran’s top national security official Ali Larijani vowing “we will not negotiate with the United States,” the killing of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran and Hezbollah strikes across the region, six U.S. service members killed, 11 people killed in Israel, deaths in the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait and Bahrain, and more than 550 killed in Iran according to the Red Crescent; it also cited oil prices rising sharply, flight cancellations, airport closures, and Americans having “very limited options” to leave Israel, with the U.S. embassy in Israel recommending buses to Taba in Egypt. ### Gaza’s ceasefire had momentum. Now, some fear a new war in Iran will distract the world | PBS News, 2026-03-02, said Palestinians in Gaza fear the widening U.S.-Israeli war against Iran will overshadow the fragile ceasefire and reconstruction push after Trump’s recent pledges for Gaza. It reported that Israel’s COGAT closed all crossings into Gaza and froze entry and exit of humanitarian workers, saying the crossings could not safely operate under fire and would reopen when conditions allow; Palestinians in Deir al-Balah, Khan Younis and Rafah said they rushed to markets as prices rose sharply for flour, milk, diapers, food and water, recalling last year’s scarcity and famine in part of Gaza around Gaza City. The article said Gaza’s main Rafah crossing had reopened only a month earlier and was now shut again during Ramadan; the U.N. World Food Program said households averaged “two meals per day in February 2026” compared to one meal in July, but one in five households still had only one meal daily, while World Central Kitchen warned it would run out of supplies this week and José Andrés said, “We need food deliveries every single day.” It also said Trump had said bombing in Iran could continue through the week or longer, distracting from his “Board of Peace” and Gaza ceasefire goals including disarming Hamas, deploying an international stabilization force, and forming a Palestinian committee to govern Gaza. ### US announces its first casualties in Iran war; poll signals challenge for Trump | Reuters, 2026-03-02, said the U.S. military announced its first American casualties on Sunday, with three U.S. troops killed and another five seriously wounded, and later said two previously unaccounted-for service members were recovered dead from a facility struck during Iran’s initial attacks, bringing the death toll to six; two officials said the dead were on a base in Kuwait. It said Trump claimed 48 Iranian leaders had been killed, nine Iranian war