2026-03-03 | FCC chair tells CNBC WBD-Paramount merger deal ‘cleaner’ than Netflix: FCC Chairman Brendan Carr told CNBC’s Arjun Kharpal on Tuesday, on the sidelines of the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain, that Paramount Skydance’s revised bid to buy Warner Bros. Discovery is a “good deal,” “cleaner” than Netflix’s and should be approved “pretty quickly,” saying Netflix’s potential combination raised “a lot of competition concerns” and would have had “a very difficult path” with regulators. Paramount last week raised its offer to $31 per share from $30 per share for the entirety of WBD, while Netflix’s earlier plan was to buy WBD’s studio and streaming businesses for $27.75 per share and said that offer was “no longer financially attractive.” Carr said Paramount’s deal “does not raise at all the same types of concerns” and that “if there’s any FCC role at all, it’ll be a pretty minimal role.” The WBD/Paramount transaction would include WBD’s pay TV networks such as CNN, TBS and TNT, unlike Netflix’s bid, and Paramount said it would release at least 30 films annually, or 15 per studio, and combine Paramount+ with HBO Max after closing. Paramount has offered a $7 billion breakup fee if the deal fails to gain regulatory approval; it already paid WBD’s $2.8 billion breakup fee after the Netflix deal was canceled. Analysts from Raymond James called the Paramount-WBD deal “meaningfully easier,” though Paren Knadjian of EisnerAmper warned of antitrust, political and CFIUS issues, including roughly $24 billion from Gulf state sovereign wealth funds. ### 2026-03-03 | Stock market news for March 4, 2026: Stocks rose on Wednesday as worries about a U.S. growth scare faded and oil’s surge eased after developments in the U.S.-Israeli war on Iran. The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 238.14 points, or 0.49%, to 48,739.41, snapping a three-day losing streak; the S&P 500 rose 0.78% to 6,869.50; and the Nasdaq Composite climbed 1.29% to 22,807.48. Micron Technology and Advanced Micro Devices each rose more than 5%, while Broadcom and Nvidia advanced more than 1% as chips led the rally. ADP said private-sector employers added more jobs than expected in February, and the U.S. nonmanufacturing sector grew more than expected with easing inflation pressures, leading Anthony Saglimbene of Ameriprise to say fears of a deteriorating labor market were being “challenged right now” and “The U.S. economy stands on firm ground.” Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said the U.S. would make “a series of announcements” to support oil flow through the Persian Gulf; Brent and WTI eased, with Brent flat and WTI up 0.13%, after President Donald Trump said Tuesday the U.S. would provide risk insurance for maritime trade through the Gulf and the Strait of Hormuz, where tanker traffic had halted after an IRGC commander threatened ships. Bessent also said Trump’s 15% global tariff announced late last month will be implemented this week, though he expects U.S. tariff rates to return “within five months” to pre-Supreme Court levels. ### 2026-03-03 | GitLab Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year Fiscal Year 2026 Financial Results; Board of Directors Authorizes $400 million for Share Repurchase Program – Company Announcement - FT.com: GitLab Inc. (NASDAQ: GTLB), the all