Day 7 of Middle East conflict — Trump says no deal with Iran until ‘unconditional surrender’

Trump told CNN he is not worried whether Iran becomes a democratic state. UN Secretary-General António Guterres warns war "could spiral beyond anyone’s control."

Updated 3:41 AM EST, Sat March 7, 2026

• Source: CNN

The US’ Gulf Arab allies, which had previously sought to stay out of the war with Iran, are reconsidering that position after coming under attack from Tehran, US Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth said.

The United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Kuwait, Bahrain and Saudi Arabia, which have spent the past week defending their territories from Iranian attacks, are willing to play a more offensive role, including allowing US access to military bases they had previously denied, Hegseth said in two press briefings this week.

He made similar comments at a briefing on Wednesday, saying Gulf states “now realize that this is something that has to be dealt with.”

“On different levels, they’re reaching out to us, whether they’re going on offense, which they are, whether they’re giving us additional access basing an overflight, we’re getting,” he said.

Gulf states have condemned Iran’s strikes and said they reserved the right to retaliate, but have not indicated that they are willing to change their position on the war. On March 3, after press reports that Abu Dhabi may consider an offensive approach towards Iran, the UAE said, “It has not taken any decision to alter its defensive posture in response to the repeated Iranian attacks.”

Qatar warned that a “price has to be paid” for Iranian strikes but has said that it is not part of the campaign against Iran.

CNN is reaching out to the Gulf Arab states’ foreign ministries for comment.

Read more

The war in the Middle East has tarnished one of President Donald Trump’s favorite talking points: Cheap gas prices.

The AAA national average for regular gasoline surged by another seven cents today to $3.32 a gallon.

That marks the highest average gas price of either of Trump’s two terms in the White House, according to AAA data. The prior high under Trump was set April 4, 2025, at $3.27 a gallon.

Gas prices are now well above the level on Election Day 2024 ($3.10) and when Trump took office in January 2025 ($3.13). Gas prices were last this expensive on September 3, 2024.

However, pump prices remain well below the record high set under former President Joe Biden at $5.02 a gallon in June 2022 following Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine.

The gas price spike, if sustained, could exacerbate the affordability strain that was already pressuring families and angering voters.

Bank of America warned in a research report on Friday that while lower gas prices have recently “aided affordability,” a sustained disruption to global energy shipping lanes could force households to “feel that squeeze at the pump.”

Read more

Smoke rises following an Israeli airstrike in Dahiyeh, Beirut, on Friday.

Hussein Malla/AP

The Israeli military said it has struck more than 500 targets across Lebanon, including the country’s largest cities and population centers. The military has also launched 27 waves of strikes – and counting – against the Dahieh area of southern Beirut, considered a Hezbollah stronghold.

The military said it targeted Hezbollah militants, missiles launchers, headquarters and weapons storage facilities. Those strikes have occurred in Beirut, Tripoli, Sidon and other cities after Israel issued evacuation warnings for much of southern Lebanon, major parts of Beirut, and villages in the Beqaa Valley.

The Israel Defense Forces (IDF) also acknowledged that it has struck residential buildings in Beirut that it said were housing Hezbollah infrastructure and drone storage.

On Thursday, the IDF Chief of Staff, Lt. Gen. Eyal Zamir, said Israel had struck more than 2,600 targets in Tehran, using more than 6,000 munitions, since the war began. That includes targets belonging to the Iranian regime, the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, and ballistic missiles arrays and launchers.

Israel has given no indication that it has any intent of deescalating, as Zamir said that the IDF is moving into the “next phase” of the war, which he would not detail.

Read more

Government supporters march against the ongoing US-Israeli military campaign after Friday prayers at the Imam Khomeini Grand mosque in Tehran.

Demonstrators attend an anti-Israeli and US rally after Friday prayers, in Tehran, Iran, on Friday.

Majid Asgaripour/Wana News Agency/Reuters

Demonstrators hold images of Iran's late Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.

Majid Asgaripour/Wana News Agency/Reuters

Demonstrators attend an anti-Israeli and US rally.

Majid Asgaripour/Wana News Agency/Reuters

A demonstrator holds an image of Iran's late Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei at the pro-regime rally.

Majid Asgaripour/Wana News Agency/Reuters

Read more

Smoke rises during airstrikes in the Iranian capital Tehran on Friday morning.

Atta Kenare/AFP/Getty Images

Residents in Tehran told CNN of their terror and panic following what they felt was the most intense night of airstrikes on the Iranian capital since this war began.

“It was very late at night. People were panicking. But some were watching the jets from the windows, as if they had come to the movies,” one Tehran resident, who CNN is not naming, said.

“There are no warnings. I’ve been sheltering in a parking garage because my apartment building doesn’t have a basement. We’ve been stocking canned food, water supplies, and flashlights in case power is out.”

“People are happy police stations are being hit. There’s still a police presence at toll booths and they check the trunk of your car if you want to leave Tehran.”

Another resident said that once she had finally gotten to sleep, she was woken up again by “sounds of jets and bombs.”

“It was the worst night I’ve felt since this war started,” she added. “It was more intense than anything I’ve ever felt before.”

Following the 12-day war with Israel last summer, Tehran’s residents are already “sensitive to sounds and get startled easily,” a 28-year-old man who lives there said.

Nonetheless, the sounds he heard this morning were “different from the other explosions we’ve heard the last few days,” he said.

“I heard that plane, the jet, the sound was so long, so loud it was really strange.”

Read more

Thousands of flights set to depart from airports across the Middle East have been canceled since Saturday’s US-Israeli strikes on Iran sparked widespread Iranian retaliation, leaving citizens living and working in the region stranded.

At Saudi Arabia’s King Khalid International Airport in the country’s capital of Riyadh today, a young couple, who did not wish to be named for their safety, waited to catch a flight to Istanbul, Turkey, hoping to eventually make it home to Spain.

Their luggage remained “on a plane on the tarmac in Doha,” where the couple became stuck transiting from Thailand, they told CNN. While they didn’t mind spending a day or two in the Qatari capital, the pair quickly decided their only chance of getting home was to drive to Saudi Arabia and wait for a flight.

They drove eight hours from Doha to Riyadh, but said they were relieved to have reached this point, and hopeful they’d soon be on the last leg of their long journey home.

A fleet of around 300 movie industry workers also waited at the airport in Riyadh for their chartered flight destined for Istanbul. “We’re mostly Kiwis, Australians and Hungarians,” one worker, who did not wish to be named for safety, said. “We’re technicians, set designers and wardrobe workers.”

The team has been working on a long-term project just outside of Riyadh where they were “essentially building up Saudi’s movie industry.” Their project has been put on hold amid the conflict, they said.

Read more

A family from Yorkshire who were living in Dubai embrace a relative, as passengers from the first government‑chartered flight for British nationals, which departed from Oman, arrive at London Stansted Airport on Friday.

Isabel Infantes/Reuters

Countries around the world continue to work to get stranded nationals home safely, with evacuation flights now underway throughout the Middle East after the war paralyzed travel in the region.

Here’s the latest on repatriation efforts:

Australia: Four evacuation flights had already departed the region, with four more planned for the next 24 hours, the country’s foreign minister said.

UK efforts: The UK’s first evacuation charter flight from Oman landed in London following a 24-hour delay. More than 4,000 people have now arrived back in the United Kingdom on commercial flights from the UAE, with more charter flights arranged for the coming days, Prime Minister Keir Starmer said Thursday.

European flights: The European Commission announced Thursday that six repatriation flights had brought European citizens back to Bulgaria, Italy, Austria, and Slovakia. Additional repatriation flights are planned.

US evacuation flights: Americans who were stranded in the Middle East for days breathed a sigh of relief after landing on US soil Thursday, arriving on some of the first commercial flights out of the United Arab Emirates. A State Department spokesperson told CNN 20,000 Americans have returned to the US since the war began, 10,000 of whom were directly assisted by the State Department’s task force.

Bus services: The US embassy in Israel announced it’s offering a bus service to the Egyptian border for American citizens wanting to leave the country. The service will leave from Jerusalem and Tel Aviv, taking Americans to the Taba border crossing.

New Zealand: Two defense force planes have been sent to the region to potentially assist with evacuations. “It will take some days for arrangements to be put in place, and we cannot guarantee we will be able to provide assisted departures in all locations,” said a government statement.

Here’s what travelers need to know about evacuations.

Read more

Passengers returning to the US walk out of the terminal upon their arrival from the Middle East at John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York on Thursday.

Yuki Iwamura/AP

Americans who were stranded in the Middle East breathed a sigh of relief after landing on US soil Thursday, arriving on some of the first commercial flights out of the United Arab Emirates.

“I’ve been in Dubai for over a week,” Ayesha Patel, a Chicago-area teacher, told CNN affiliate WBBM after landing at O’Hare International Airport. She said she didn’t want to wait until US government officials arranged a flight for her.

The trip to Chicago was about two hours longer than usual because the flight deviated from its normal route to avoid danger from the fighting, Patel and other passengers told WBBM.

Another flight from Dubai carried New Yorkers home, arriving at JFK International. One New Jersey mom said she was stuck with her 6-month-old daughter during a two-day layover in Dubai.

Another New Jersey resident said he has cellphone video of an Iranian drone strike near his hotel in Dubai, adding, “We all tried to stay inside” to avoid falling debris.

College students Evan Rhualt and Ryan Rivera Cabrera, from Connecticut, said they were in Dubai for a Model United Nations conference. Rhualt told WABC they would periodically have to go into the underground parking garage of their hotel “for 30 minutes to an hour until we were told it was safe.”

New Yorker Jenna Arnold blasted the US government’s lack of preparation for Americans in the Mideast.

The first evacuation flight chartered by the US State Department arrived in the Washington, DC, area Thursday, and the department said multiple charter flights were underway.

A State Department spokesperson told CNN 20,000 Americans have returned to the US since the war began, 10,000 of whom were directly assisted by the State Department’s task force.

Read more

Almost a week after joint US-Israeli strikes first hit Iran, the war continues to rage across the Middle East with Israel launching fresh waves of strikes against Tehran and Hezbollah in Beirut.

Here’s what you need to know:

- Asian markets stabilize: Markets in Asia closed largely flat Friday after they were roiled all week by the war in Iran and fears of energy supply disruptions. But analysts warn that this stabilization might not last.
- Oil trade: War in Iran has caused a “significant increase in demand” for Russian energy products, the Kremlin. That came a day after the US gave India a “30-day waiver” to purchase Russian oil currently stranded at sea as the conflict in the Middle East disrupts the energy market.
- Growing toll: US-Israeli strikes have killed more than 1,200 people in Iran and more than 120 in Lebanon, according to each country’s state media.
- Iranian retaliation: Iranian ballistic missile attacks have sharply reduced, the US Central Command said. Still, Iran said it launched a hybrid drone and missile attack against Israel overnight, Bahraini officials said a hotel and two residential buildings in the capital Manama were hit, and an Air France repatriation flight leaving the UAE Thursday evening was forced to return due to “missile fire in the area.”
- Israeli assault on Beirut: Fresh strikes have hit the Lebanese capital, hours after Israel said it carried out a “ broad-scale wave of strikes” overnight targeting Hezbollah sites in the city. An Israeli military warning to evacuate almost all of southern Beirut caused panic Thursday evening as people fled parts of the Lebanese capital.
- Fresh wave of strikes on Iran: Tehran came under intense bombardment overnight after Israel said it launched another wave of strikes targeting the Iranian capital. The strikes have damaged more than 3,000 homes across Iran, the Iranian Red Crescent Society said. CNN is unable to verify those figures.

Read more

Fresh strikes hit Beirut as IDF announces 'broad-ranging' strikes against Hezbollah

00:36 • Source: CNN

Fresh strikes hit Beirut shortly before noon local time on Friday, sending smoke billowing from the skyline, Reuters video showed.

The strikes came hours after Israel’s military said it had carried out a “broad-scale wave of strikes” overnight in the Lebanese capital, targeting Hezbollah sites in the latest of more than 20 waves of strikes on the city’s southern Dahieh area.

Social Media via Reuters

Read more

Analysts estimate the war against Iran is costing American taxpayers more than $890 million a day, based on known military operations and congressional cost estimates. CNN’s Tom Foreman reports.

01:24 • Source: CNN

Read more

The war in Iran has caused a “significant increase in demand” for Russian energy products, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Friday.

His comments came after the United States on Thursday gave India a “30-day waiver” to purchase Russian oil currently stranded at sea as the conflict in the Middle East continues to disrupt the energy market.

Before the conflict with Iran, the US had berated India for continuing to buy Russia’s oil – which helps fund the Kremlin’s war effort in Ukraine – and imposed punishing tariffs on the country.

Announcing the temporary waiver, Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent claimed that the “deliberately short-term measure will not provide significant financial benefit” to Russia.

Peskov said buyers like India and China were guided by their “national interest.”

Read more

Even as some European leaders question the war, countries are moving to protect assets in the region.

02:35 • Source: CNN

Read more

Residents in Beirut woke to explosions and debris after Israel carried out overnight strikes on the Lebanese capital.

A member of the civil defence makes his way through debris at the site of overnight Israeli airstrikes in the southern suburbs of Beirut.

AFP/Getty Images

Displaced people fleeing Israeli airstrikes in Beirut's southern suburb of Dahieh sleep on the Beirut corniche.

Hussein Malla/AP

Smoke rises from an earlier Israeli airstrike in Dahieh, in Beirut's southern suburbs.

Hussein Malla/AP

A residential building in ruin at the site of overnight Israeli airstrike.

AFP/Getty Images

A displaced man covers himself by a blanket as he rests on the Beirut corniche.

Hussein Malla/AP

Read more

Potential missile warnings were heard across Dubai on Friday afternoon and residents were told to seek immediate shelter.

04:02 • Source: CNN

Read more

An Air France repatriation flight leaving the United Arab Emirates on Thursday evening was forced to return due to “missile fire in the area,” the minister for transport confirmed in a post on X.

Philippe Tabarot said the situation “highlights the instability in the region and the complexity of repatriation operations,” adding that the government recognizes the expectations of French citizens on the ground to be evacuated.

Speaking to CNEWS on Friday, Tabarot said repatriation flights will continue but the situation is “constantly changing.”

Read more

The CIA is working to arm Kurdish forces with the aim of fomenting a popular uprising in Iran, sources told CNN. From Iran’s borderlands to Iraq’s autonomous region and Syria’s militias, Kurdish fighters face starkly different realities. CNN’s Clarissa Ward reports.

01:28 • Source: CNN

Read more

Four men suspected of surveilling the Jewish community in London have been arrested on suspicion of spying for Iran, London’s Metropolitan police said Friday.

The men – one Iranian and three dual British-Iranian nationals – were arrested on suspicion of assisting Iran’s foreign intelligence service, contrary to Britain’s National Security Act, the police said.

“We understand the public may be concerned, in particular the Jewish community, and as always, I would ask them to remain vigilant and if they see or hear anything that concerns them, then to contact us,” she added.

Six others were arrested on suspicion of assisting an offender, and all 10 men have been taken into custody, police said.

Read more

Asian markets on Friday largely closed flat, following days of volatility driven by fears of energy supply disruptions as the war in Iran continues.

Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 index rose 0.62% at closing, while South Korea’s Kospi was up less than 0.02%. Taiwan’s Taiex closed down 0.22%. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index climbed 1.72%.

East Asian economies such as Japan, South Korea and Taiwan are highly reliant on energy imports from the Middle East. After clocking steep losses on Wednesday, benchmark indexes in these countries bounced back on Thursday.

But analysts warned that the market rout may not be over as uncertainties surrounding the Middle East conflict linger.

Read more