Pete Hegseth: U.S. may deploy troops in Iran conflict

NOW PLAYING

Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth is refusing to rule out U.S. boots on the ground in Iran as the joint military operations with Israel against the country enter a second week.

During a “60 Minutes” interview with CBS News’s Major Garrett that aired late Sunday, the top Pentagon official confirmed that U.S. forces were not on the ground in Iran.

“But we reserve the right,” Hegesth added. “We would be completely unwise if we did not reserve the right to take any particular option, whether it included boots on the ground or no boots on the ground.”

He told reporters last week that the Pentagon will not “get into the exercise of what we will or will not do.”

“I think it’s one of those fallacies for a long time that this department or presidents or others should tell the American enemies, by the way, here’s exactly what, here’s exactly how long we’ll go, here’s exactly how far we’ll go, here’s what we’re willing to do and not do — it’s foolishness,” he added.

Seven U.S. service members have already died in the fight, and Hegseth told CBS“there will be more casualties.”

“The president’s been right to say there will be casualties. Things like this don’t happen without casualties,”

Additionally, Hegseth deflected concerns about Russia helping Iran locate U.S. military bases to target in their counterstrikes.

“No one’s putting us in danger,” the secretary said. “We’re putting the other guys in danger, that’s our job, so we’re not concerned about that.”

Hegseth added, “the only ones that need to be worried right now are Iranians that think they’re gonna live.”

President Trump, meanwhile, did not rule out threats to U.S. citizens when asked by Time if Americans should fear an attack on the homeland.

“But I think they’re worried about that all the time,” the president said last week. “We think about it all the time. We plan for it. But yeah, you know, we expect some things. Like I said, some people will die. When you go to war, some people will die.”

Add as preferred source on Google

Pete Hegseth

---

Copyright 2026 Nexstar Media Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.