Who could be Iran’s new supreme leader — and what happens next?

The country is now plunged into a period of even greater uncertainty, with eyes on potential successors and the possibility of civil war

Louise Callaghan

Sunday March 01 2026, 1.42am, The Times

Ayatollah Khamenei with his Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps in 2007

AP

Louise Callaghan

Sunday March 01 2026, 1.42am, The Times

As Israeli and American strikes continued into Saturday night, uncertainty over Iran’s future was deepening. The supreme leader may have painted himself as a revolutionary, but he was a brutal and repressive ruler who killed or sidelined every serious opponent he had.

This January, he ordered the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) and police forces to crack down on protesters who were calling for an end to the regime. According to Iranian activists they killed tens of thousands of people, many of them young pro-democracy protesters.

For Khamenei and those around him, anything — including slaughtering their own people — was permissible to ensure the survival of the regime. While President Trump has struggled to outline a rationale for waging war on Iran, for Khamenei the battle was existential.

The ayatollah’s destroyed compound in Tehran

AIRBUS

Now that he’s dead Iran is entering a period of great instability, when unarmed protesters are likely to clash again with the armed forces — this time, under American and Israeli bombardment, and without Khamenei (and an unknown number of other senior figures killed in Saturday’s strikes) at the regime’s head.

Though the regime has proved enormously resilient since the 1979 Islamic Revolution, it is unclear whether it will survive in its current form. Until Friday Khamenei was commander-in-chief of all Iranian armed forces, including the IRGC and the army. He oversaw appointments in the judiciary, military and in strategic councils.

Yet for all his power, Khamenei was not the only authority in Iran. He was essentially overseeing a network of institutions — some nominally elected, some not — which were guided by his policies.

In January, as the regime faced widespread protests, the supreme leader turned to his longtime ally Ali Larijani to effectively run the country. Larijani, 67, a former commander in the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps and the present head of the Supreme National Security Council, is now believed to be setting the strategy of both the Iranian response to Israeli and US attacks and internal repression.

Hours after the supreme leader’s death, state television announced that President Pezeshkian and two other top officials would lead Iran in a transitional period. The judiciary chief Gholamhossein Mohseni Ejei and another official from the country’s legal council will be part of the trio overseeing the transition.

• Ayatollah Ali Khamenei obituary: supreme leader of Iran

Khamenei’s son, Mojtaba Khamenei, who is believed to be a potential frontrunner to succeed him, has not spoken publicly since the US-Israeli strikes began. It is unclear whether he was targeted.

Mojtaba, 56, is close to the IRGC leadership, and according to Bloomberg has amassed a covert global property empire worth at least £100 million even as economic hardship drives desperate Iranians to risk their lives to protest against the regime.

Other potential successors include senior clerics from the Guardian Council and Assembly of Experts, as well as the head of the judiciary and other religious leaders.

Yet it’s unclear whether Khamenei’s successor would be able to consolidate power in the way that he did — or even whether the Islamic Republic will survive in its present configuration. The wave of protest which began in 2022 with the Women, Life, Freedom movement has persisted despite the regime’s bloody crackdown. After tens of thousands of protesters were slaughtered by the regime in January, new waves of demonstrations were still starting at universities this month.

Supporters of the ayatollah celebrate the shah’s ousting in 1979

KAIUS HEDENSTRÖM/EPU/AFP/GETTY IMAGES

Even those Iranians who are willing to accept foreign intervention to see the regime fall fear what comes next: a possibility of civil conflict between (for now, unarmed) protesters and the armed forces, particularly the IRGC, for whom the fight is just as existential as it was for the supreme leader.

Few are convinced that the US or Israel have a well-developed plan to stabilise Iran or prevent more protesters from being killed. And it’s unclear whether Trump would be — as with Venezuela — open to a regime figure (perhaps Hassan Rouhani, the reformist former president, though he is deeply unpopular) ruling the country under threat of invasion from the US.

On Saturday evening Trump told CBS News that there were some “good candidates” to lead Iran. Asked who was running the country in his absence, Trump said: “I know exactly who, but I can’t tell you.”

Pushed on whether there was someone in particular he would like to lead, he said there were “some good candidates”.

A woman holds a portrait of the former shah’s son Reza Pahlavi during a rally to support the strikes in Atlanta, Georgia

ELIJAH NOUVELAGE/AFP/GETTY IMAGES

Reza Pahlavi, the son of the former shah who was overthrown in the Islamic Revolution, has spent most of his adult life living in the United States. He has pledged to return to rule Iran (initially as a transitional figure). But though he has the backing of many in the powerful diaspora, it’s unclear how much support he has within Iran, despite increasing numbers of protesters chanting his name in recent years. And despite his assurances to the contrary it’s also unclear whether there are elements in the armed forces who would support him if the regime fell.

Still, many Iranians believe that anything and anyone is better than the regime. It remains to be seen whether they’re right.