Iran agreed to 'zero stockpiling' of nuclear material in US talks: Omani FM

Oman’s foreign minister said Friday that Iran is offering to give up stockpiling enriched uranium as part of a deal with the U.S. related to its nuclear program.

Foreign Minister Badr al-Busaidi is serving as the mediator between U.S. and Iranian officials in Geneva.

“Now we are talking about zero stockpiling and that is very, very important because if you cannot stockpile material that is enriched, then there is no way you can actually create a bomb,” al-Busaidi told Margaret Brennan of CBS’s “Face the Nation.”

Iran currently holds a stockpile of between 300 and 400 kilograms of 60 percent enriched uranium that nuclear experts have warned can be converted to a nuclear weapon.

Al-Busaidi said if there is a deal, international nuclear inspectors, likely from the International Atomic Energy Agency, could inspect Iran’s nuclear facilities at places like Isfahan and inspect the stockpiles.

Al-Busaidi suggested that Iran has agreed to downgrade the enriched uranium.

“There is agreement now that this will be downblended to the lowest level possible. And converted into fuel and that fuel will be irreversible. … I think we have agreement on that in my view,” he said.

Al-Busaidi said if there is a deal there will be full access for inspectors.

It’s not clear if the U.S. is as optimistic about achieving a deal. President Trump has massed a major military contingent in the Middle East and is threatening strikes against Iran if a deal is not reached.

“We haven’t made a final decision. We’re not exactly happy with the way they’re negotiating,” Trump said Friday morning when leaving the White House.

“We’ll see how it all works out.”

## International

- Duffy's wife knocks Trump's Venezuela policy: 'We're getting a little too cozy'
- FEMA OKs billions in disaster assistance
- More Iranians face executions over protests: UN rights chief
- Trump told Patel he wasn't pleased with FBI director's Olympic partying: Report
- Trump administration goes nuclear on AI firm Anthropic