It is currently well past sundown in Tehran, and footage of the southern horizon showed a blaze clearly illuminating the night sky.

The strikes lasted for about an hour, with thuds in the east, south and northwest of the city.

CNN reports from Iran with the permission of the Iranian government.

This post has been updated with additional details from Tehran.

Israel will continue to strike Iran “with all our might,” Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Saturday.

In a recorded statement, Netanyahu claimed Israel and the US have achieved “almost complete control” over the skies of Iran and that there are “many more targets and surprises prepared.”

Shortly before his statement was released, Israel announced a new wave of strikes on Tehran.

Netanyahu directly threatened members of Iran’s elite Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, saying, “You are in the crosshairs.”

The prime minister said the military operation with the US will “create the conditions that will allow the Iranian people to take their fate into their own hands.” He urged Iranians to rise up.

Against the backdrop of intensified Israeli strikes against Hezbollah targets in Lebanon, Netanyahu called on the Lebanese government to adhere to its commitment under the November 2024 ceasefire agreement and disarm Hezbollah.

President Donald Trump disembarks from Air Force One upon arrival at Dover Air Force Base in Delaware, on Saturday.

Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images

The six American service members who lost their lives in an Iranian drone strike in Kuwait will be brought home during a dignified transfer at Dover Air Force Base in Delaware.

President Donald Trump, Vice President JD Vance, second lady Usha Vance, first lady Melania Trump and Cabinet officials will be in attendance.

“I will be going to Dover Air Force Base tomorrow, with the First Lady and Members of my Cabinet, to pay our Highest Respect to our Great Warriors, who are returning home for the last time,” Trump wrote on Truth Social yesterday. “GOD BLESS THEM ALL!” he added.

The service members being honored are Maj. Jeffery O’Brien, Capt. Cody Khork, Chief Warrant Officer 3 Robert Marzan, Sgt. 1st Class Nicole Amor, Sgt. 1st Class Noah Tietjens and Sgt. Declan Coady. All were assigned to the 103rd Sustainment Command, an Army Reserve unit out of Iowa.

Four of them grew close bonds while they previously served in the same unit during 2019 in Kuwait, retired US Army Col. Josef Sujet, then chief of staff of the 103rd Sustainment Command, told CNN.

This post has been updated with additional information.

There were more blasts heard in Bahrain, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates Saturday evening local time, despite a suggestion earlier in the day from Iran’s president that strikes across the Gulf would cease.

There was a series of loud explosions in Bahrain, according to witnesses. It was not immediately clear whether they were caused by impacts or interceptions.

Iran’s official Fars news agency claimed there were “massive explosions at US bases in Bahrain.” The Bahraini Ministry of the Interior later said in a post on social media that “Iranian aggression caused a fire and material damage to a house and several surrounding buildings in Manama.”

Meanwhile, CNN staff in Qatar reported a series of loud bangs, and teams in Abu Dhabi, the UAE’s capital, reported at least three loud blasts.

The UAE’s National Security Council posted on X that, “Air defense systems are currently responding to a missile threat,” advising people to “remain in a safe location.”

Earlier Saturday, Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian apologized to Arab Gulf nations for the impact of Iranian drone and missile attacks targeting US bases and said Iran would stop striking its neighbors unless it came under attack.

Pezeshkian’s office later issued an “explanation” that his message was clear: “if regional countries do not cooperate in America’s attack on us, we will not attack them.”

This post has been updated to reflect additional blasts and a statement from Bahrain’s government.

The Trump administration has declared an emergency and bypassed Congress to immediately sell 12,000 bombs to Israel amid ongoing military operations against Iran.

According to a notice from the US State Department, Israel requested to buy “twelve thousand (12,000) BLU-110A/B general purpose, 1,000-pound bomb bodies,” valued at more than $151 million.

Secretary of State Marco Rubio “has determined and provided detailed justification that an emergency exists that requires the immediate sale to the Government of Israel of the above defense articles and defense services is in the national security interests of the United States, thereby waiving the Congressional review requirements,” the notice said.

The emergency declaration and expedited sale come as Israel and the United States continue their war against Iran. President Donald Trump on Saturday previewed a heavy new assault, saying, “Today Iran will be hit very hard!”

“Under serious consideration for complete destruction and certain death, because of Iran’s bad behavior, are areas and groups of people that were not considered for targeting up until this moment in time,” he wrote on Truth Social Saturday morning.

Iran’s Foreign Minister Abbas Aragchi on Saturday accused the United States of attacking a desalination plant on Qeshm Island, off the southern coast of Oman, which he claimed had impacted water supply in 30 villages.

CNN has not seen any evidence of the alleged US attack, and has asked US Central Command for comment on Aragchi’s allegation.

Still, the claim has drawn attention to what may be the most important piece of infrastructure in the region. The Middle East is home to more than a quarter of the world’s desalination plants, which allow the desertic region to turn sea water into drinking water.

Since the outbreak of war a week ago, analysts have feared that an increasingly desperate Iran – shorn of good military options – could resort to targeting these plants in order to inflict costs on US allies in the Gulf.

Although CNN has not seen evidence of a US strike on a desalination plant on Qeshm Island, Aragchi’s accusation has raised the possibility that this infrastructure could become targets.

A new Iranian supreme leader could be chosen within the next 24 hours, a member of the country’s Assembly of Experts has said, according to Iran’s state-affiliated Fars News Agency.

Ayatollah Mozaffari said that the 88 senior clerics that make up the Assembly of Experts are “impatiently waiting” for the conditions to hold a session where the next leader of Iran will be picked, Fars reported.

No selection for the next supreme leader has yet taken place, he continued, calling for the public not to speculate or spread rumors about this, Fars reported.

More explosions have rocked cities across the Middle East on Saturday evening local time.

The fresh blasts in Bahrain, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates came hours after Iran’s president suggested strikes in neighboring Gulf states would cease — though he added that Iran reserved the right to strike areas where US attacks originated.

Catch up on the latest:

- Evacuation flights: The US has completed over a dozen charter flights to evacuate thousands of Americans from the Middle East, a top State Department official said Saturday.
- Spiking gas prices: US gas prices shot up another 9 cents, according to AAA, taking the average price to $3.41 a gallon, the highest since August 2024.
- Israeli raid: Lebanese authorities say dozens of people were killed when Israeli commandos raided a border region in search of the remains of a long-missing airman. Residents in the Nabi Chit village endured a “night of hell,” one told Reuters.
- Fallen US troops: Later Saturday, Trump will be in Delaware to observe the dignified transfer of the remains of six service members killed in Kuwait. Speaking at a summit this morning, the president said he intends to keep US deaths in the Iran war “to a minimum.”
- Rising death toll: Since last Saturday, at least 1,172 civilians have been killed in Iran, according to the US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency. And at least 294 people have been killed in Lebanon since Israel began strikes on the country on Monday, the Lebanese health ministry said.
- More from Tehran: After President Masoud Pezeshkian’s apology to Arab Gulf nations for recent strikes, Iran issued an additional statement pledging a continued firm response to any attacks from US military bases in the region. A senior Iranian official told CNN that Tehran is looking for new assets to strike in response to US President Donald Trump’s threat to escalate his military campaign.

United Arab Emirates President Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan issued a thinly veiled threat to Iran, warning that his country is “not easy prey” and calling Tehran “the enemy” in a shift from the way the UAE traditionally frames its relationship with its Gulf neighbor.

In extremely rare public comments, the president, known as MBZ, said he “wanted to send a message to the enemy of the UAE.”

“The UAE is beautiful, the UAE is a model to be followed, but I tell you, do not be deceived by that,” he warned Tehran while visiting a hospital, which is treating civilians injured in the strikes. “The UAE’s hand can reach and is strong, its flesh is bitter, and we are not easy prey.”

Gas prices shot up another 9 cents a gallon in the latest reading from AAA, taking the average price to $3.41 a gallon, the highest since August 2024.

The average price has now climbed 43 cents in just the last week, the largest weekly increase since early March 2022, soon after oil-rich Russia was hit with widespread sanctions after its invasion of Ukraine.

This latest rise is a reaction to the war in Iran and the virtual closure of the Strait of Hormuz, a crucial channel through which 20% of the world’s oil passes, as well Iran’s retaliatory attacks on the oil facilities of its neighbors — the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil exporter.

Most of the price increase has come in the last five days, with each day seeing a jump of 5 cents or more. The increase of 11.2 cents on Tuesday was the largest one-day hike since Hurricane Katrina in 2005.

Diesel prices are rising even faster. The average price of diesel rose 18 cents to $4.51 a gallon in Saturday’s reading, taking it up 75 cents in just the last week.

And more prices hikes could be on the way. The price of a barrel of West Texas Intermediate (WTI), the benchmark for US crude, closed up 12.2% to $90.90 a barrel on Friday, the largest one-day increase since May 2020 during Covid. That left that key oil price up 36% for the week, the largest weekly increase in the futures contract since at least 1983.

Iranians have had little to no access to the internet for more than a week now, as the country faces a near total blackout during the ongoing conflict with Israel and the United States.

The number of civilians killed in Iran following US and Israeli strikes in the country since last Saturday climbed to 1,172 as of 5 p.m. ET Friday, according to the US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRANA).

Of those killed, at least 194 are children, HRANA reported. In addition to the civilian fatalities, another 176 members of the military have also been killed, the rights group said.

Some facilities protected under international humanitarian law were damaged by strikes between Thursday and Friday evening ET, HRANA said, including a Red Crescent facility, three residential units in Tehran and a National Iranian Oil Company facility.

The death toll for this latest conflict is nearing the total toll of last summer’s 12-day war between Iran, Israel and the US – which HRANA estimates killed 1,190 people in Iran.