US and Israel attack Iran — as it happened taghttps://www.npmjs.com/package/gulp-inline-source--

We haven't been able to take payment

You must update your payment details via My Account or by clicking update payment details to keep your subscription.

Update payment details

Act now to keep your subscription

We've tried to contact you several times as we haven't been able to take payment. You must update your payment details via My Account or by clicking update payment details to keep your subscription.

Update payment details

Your subscription is due to terminate

We've tried to contact you several times as we haven't been able to take payment. You must update your payment details via My Account, otherwise your subscription will terminate.

Update payment details

More from The Times and The Sunday TimesTap 'Menu' and then 'Explore'Tap 'Menu' and then 'Explore'

Dismiss

## Accessibility Links

Skip to content

---

---

---

---

---

- Start trial
- Log in
- Magazines

Log in Start trial

---

VIDEO

# US and Israel attack Iran — as it happened

## After confirming the death of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran threatened a ‘regret-inducing punishment’. Trump responded that it ‘better not’

Dominic Hauschild

|

Mark Urban

|

Gabrielle Weiniger

, Tel Aviv |

Gabriel Pogrund

, |

Haroon Janjua

|

Christina Lamb

|

Charlie Moloney

|

Oliver Gill

|

Larisa Brown

Sunday March 01 2026, 9.50am, The Sunday Times

## What you need to know

Iran has confirmed that Ayatollah Ali Khamenei is dead after US-Israeli strikes

Explosions were detected over Dubai, Doha, Bahrain, Iraq and Israel as Iran launched retaliatory action against targets across the Middle East

The Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps threatened “devastating” revenge “in moments”, prompting a robust response from President Trump

A luxury hotel in Dubai caught fire and one person has died at an Abu Dhabi airport

Follow the latest updates here

9.26am

March 1

## IDF publishes video of Khamenei attack

Israel’s military has published video of Saturday’s air strikes on Ayatollah Khamenei’s compound in Tehran.

Posted on the IDF’s social media account, the caption said the video showed “the final moments of the destruction of the headquarters of the Iranian terror regime” in central Tehran.

# X (Twitter) content blocked

Please enable cookies and other technologies to view this content. You can update your cookies preferences any time using privacy manager.

Enable cookiesAllow cookies once

Khamenei, 86, died when multiple bombs from Israeli jets struck the compound, the military said earlier.

9.13am

March 1

## Israel mobilises 20,000 reservists

The Israeli military’s home front command said on Sunday it had mobilised about 20,000 reservists to assist civilians after Iranian missile attacks.

Air raid sirens earlier warned residents in Jerusalem to take shelter as further ballistic missiles were launched at Israel.

Advertisement

On Saturday a woman in her forties was killed and 27 people injured as an Iranian missile struck a residential block in Tel Aviv.

An explosion in Tel Aviv on Saturday

SHUTTERSTOCK EDITORIAL

However, there were no reports of injuries or direct impacts in residential areas after the latest salvo on Sunday.

The Israeli home front command said it had called up “approximately 20,000 reservists” in the past 24 hours.

Israel’s security cabinet is due to meet on Sunday evening.

9.03am

March 1

## ‘200 dead and 750 injured’ in US-Israeli strikes

Iran’s Red Crescent said that 201 people had been killed and 747 injured in US-Israeli strikes across 24 provinces on Saturday. That figure is expected to rise as further attacks continued on Sunday.

Advertisement

Iran’s judiciary confirmed that Ali Shamkhani, a top adviser to Ayatollah Khamenei, and the head of Iran’s powerful Revolutionary Guards, General Mohammad Pakpour, had died in the strikes, with the supreme leader.

Gholamreza Rezaian, Iran’s police intelligence chief, was also among the dead, local media reported on Sunday.

Targets included Revolutionary Guard command facilities, air defence capabilities, missile and drone launch sites and military airfields.

In Minab, southern Iran, a girls’ school was hit, killing at least 148 children, according to local reports.

Ali Larijani, head of Iran’s Supreme National Security Council, vowed defiance. “The brave soldiers and the great nation of Iran will teach an unforgettable lesson to the international oppressors,” he said.

Advertisement

8.54am

March 1

## US used suicide drones in strikes on Iran

Suicide drones modelled after Iran’s Shahed drones were deployed by the US military for the first time in Saturday’s strikes, the Pentagon said.

The low-cost one-way attack drones are the type that have been used extensively in the war against Ukraine.

The US navy’s Arleigh Burke-class destroyers in the Middle East fired waves of Tomahawk cruise missiles for the initial penetration of Tehran’s air defences, followed by sorties by F/A-18 multi-role fighters and F-35 fighter jets launched from the USS Abraham Lincoln aircraft carrier.

Over the next 12 hours, the US military carried out nearly 900 strikes, from the land, sea and air. Israel deployed more than 200 jets to hit more than 500 targets across the country.

8.50am

March 1

## Khamenei’s compound ‘hit by 30 bombs’

Ayatollah Khamenei was killed when about 30 bombs were dropped on his compound in central Tehran on Saturday, according to Israeli media.

Advertisement

Israel, having co-ordinated with the US, dropped the bombs at the high-security site in the Pasteur Street district, according to an unsourced Channel 12 news report. Khamenei was said to be underground at the location, but not in one of the two deepest bunkers.

Satellite images from Airbus Defence and Space showed the compound reduced to debris as plumes of smoke filled the air.

AIRBUS

Justin Crump, a military analyst, said that the “layering of munitions was to collapse the building and then hit the ruins to ensure the targets didn’t survive and overcome any protection or reinforcement”.

8.46am

March 1

## IDF ‘striking regime targets’ in Tehran

The Israeli military said on Sunday that it had begun striking further targets in Iran’s capital.

“The IDF is striking targets that belong to the Iranian terror regime in the heart of Tehran,” the military said.

Advertisement

“Over the past day, the Israeli Air Force conducted large-scale strikes in order to establish aerial superiority and to pave the path to Tehran.”

8.34am

March 1

## Fire breaks out in Dubai

Multiple explosions were heard across Dubai and the neighbouring emirate of Sharjah on Sunday after Iran promised to avenge Khamenei’s death.

Smoke rises in Sharjah

A massive fire broke out in an industrial area as fighter jets flew overhead. The cause of the fire was not immediately clear, but earlier there had been explosions as aerial defences intercepted Iranian missiles.

The streets of Dubai were mostly deserted because of concern over further Iranian attacks.

8.23am

March 1

## Protests at US embassies against Iran strikes

American embassies in Iraq and Pakistan attracted angry protests on Sunday after the air strikes that killed Iran’s supreme leader.

Pro-Iranian demonstrators gathered outside the Green Zone in the Iraqi capital Baghdad, and tried to breach the secure area where the US embassy is located.

Demonstrators gather near the US embassy in Baghdad

MURTADHA AL-SUDANI/ANADOLU/GETTY IMAGES

In Karachi, hundreds of protesters tried to storm the US consulate, prompting police to fire tear gas.

A crowd of young people climbed over the main gate and gained access to the driveway of the building, smashing some windows.

“We are setting the American consulate in Karachi on fire. God willing, we are avenging the killing of our leader,” one protester said as he filmed others trying to start a blaze.

Large protests were also taking place in the eastern city of Lahore and in Skardu in the north.

An anti-US and Israel protest in Skardu

MANZOOR BALTI/AFP/GETTY IMAGES

A further demonstration is planned near the US embassy in Islamabad later on Sunday.

8.07am

March 1

## Drones hit port in Oman

Two drones hit a port in Oman as Iran carried out a second day of retaliatory strikes across the Gulf.

A worker was injured after one drone crashed into an accommodation block at the Port of Duqm on the Arabian Sea, local media reported. Another landed near fuel tanks but did not cause damage.Oman, a key mediator in the US-Iran talks, had been spared in the initial wave of Iranian attacks.The US embassy in Oman asked staff and citizens to shelter in place on Sunday, citing unspecified “activity” outside the capital, Muscat. “We recommend all Americans in Oman do the same until further notice,” the embassy said in a post on X.Iran claimed to have targeted 27 US military locations in the region, as well as Israel’s Tel Nof airbase, its military headquarters, and a large defence industry complex in Tel Aviv.

7.40am

March 1

## Crowds gather in Iran to mourn Ayatollah, regime says

Large crowds of regime supporters gathered in Iran on Sunday to mourn the death of Ayatollah Khamenei, according to state-run news agencies.The Tasnim news agency posted a video of what it said was a large gathering of “mourners for the Leader of the Revolution” in the central city of Isfahan.The news that Khamenei had been “martyred” was earlier read out by tearful presenters on state television.However, other videos showed Iranians cheering and whistling from their balconies on Saturday night, as reports of Khamenei’s death began circulating.The authorities announced 40 days of mourning and seven days of public holidays, which analysts say could be used to stifle any further attempts at regime change.

7.15am

March 1

## Explosions and air raid sirens in Jerusalem

Air raid sirens sounded and explosions have been heard over Jerusalem on Sunday after the Israeli military said it had detected missiles launched from Iran towards Israel.“Sirens were sounded in several areas across the country, following the identification of missiles launched from Iran toward the State of Israel,” the military said.“At this time, the Israeli Air Force is operating to intercept and strike threats where necessary to remove the threat.”

7.07am

March 1

## Two injured by falling shrapnel in Dubai

Two people have been injured by falling shrapnel from drones which were intercepted over two houses by air defences in Dubai, the Dubai media office has reported.

Dubai’s landmark Burj Al Arab hotel and the airport, which handles more than 1,000 flights a day, were damaged in an overnight attack on sites across the Arab Gulf states that also hit airports in Abu Dhabi and Kuwait.

The Burj Al Arab hotel in Dubai on Sunday morning

REUTERS/AMR ALFIKY

6.54am

March 1

## Iran’s armed forces chief of staff killed, state TV confirms

Iranian TV said on Sunday that the country’s armed forces chief of staff Abdolrahim Mousavi had been killed in strikes on Iran.

Abdolrahim Mousavi, chief of staff of the Iranian armed forces, in July 2025

REUTERS

The strikes also killed the country’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, whose official residence was targeted.

6.40am

March 1

## Qatar battles fire caused by falling shrapnel

Qatar is battling a fire in its industrial area caused by shrapnel which fell after a missile was intercepted, the nation’s interior ministry has stated.

Posting on X, it said: “The Civil Defence deals with a minor fire in the Industrial Area caused by falling shrapnel following the interception of a missile, with no injuries reported.”

6.34am

March 1

## Loud explosions heard in Tehran

Several loud explosions have been heard in Tehran, Iranian state media have reported, as the US-Israeli multi-day operation continues.

Israel has said it had launched another wave of strikes on Iran on Sunday, as Iranians faced uncertainty after the killing of their supreme leader.

6.19am

March 1

## Three officials to lead Iran until election

Iran’s president, the head of its judiciary and a jurist from its guardian council will assume responsibility for the nation until an election can be held to choose a new leader, the nation’s top security official has said.

Ali Larijani, the head of Iran’s top security body, the Supreme National Security Council who was an adviser to Khamenei, said: “An interim leadership council will soon be formed. The president, the head of the judiciary and a jurist from the guardian council will assume responsibility until the election of the next leader.

“This council will be established as soon as possible. We are working to form it as early as today,” he said in an interview broadcast by state TV.

6.11am

March 1

## Iranians celebrate Khamenei going ‘to hell’

Iranians gathered in Tehran and other cities overnight to celebrate that Khamenei had been killed.

From Tehran, two residents described scenes unfolding in their neighbourhoods: large crowds of men and women dancing and cheering, drivers honking horns and fireworks as loud Persian dance music filled the streets. Residents watched from windows and balconies and joined in chants of “freedom, freedom”.

Sahar, a 27-year-old Tehran resident, said that upon hearing the confirmation of Khamenei’s death she screamed, hugged her mother and friends, danced and cursed him loudly. “The entire neighbourhood was shouting for joy,” she said. A month earlier she and others had been among protesters who took to the streets against the government, during which security forces beat her and her mother with batons, dragged them on roads and fired tear gas into their eyes.

“Khamenei went to hell,” a man shouted from his rooftop in a video cited by BBC Persian.

6.03am

March 1

## Iran announces interim council to lead country

Ali Larijani

ANWAR AMRO/AFP/GETTY IMAGES

A temporary leadership council is to be set up in Iran today after the nation’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, was killed in US-Israeli strikes, the nation’s top security official has said.

Ali Larijani, secretary of the Supreme National Security Council of Iran, also told state TV that the US and Israel were seeking to “plunder and disintegrate” Iran.

5.48am

March 1

## Trump and Netanyahu ‘crossed red line’, warns Iran speaker

Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf

ALAMY/IRANIAN PRESIDENCY/ZUMA

The speaker of the parliament of Iran has told President Trump and Binyamin Netanyahu that they have “crossed a red line” and warned “you will pay for it”.

Speaking on Iranian state TV, Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf said Iran would continue along the path of Ayatollah Khamenei, who was killed in the strikes yesterday.

He said scenarios, including after Khamenei’s death, were prepared. It was not known what such scenarios could entail.

5.40am

March 1

## In pictures: Iran strikes back

The Israeli-occupied West Bank city of Hebron

HAZEM BADER/AFP/GETTY IMAGES

Erbil international airport in Iraq’s autonomous Kurdistan region

SHVAN HARKI/AFP/GETTY IMAGES

Tel Aviv

REUTERS/GIDEON MARKOWICZ

The port of Jebel Ali, Dubai

FADEL SENNA/AFP/GETTY IMAGES

Tel Aviv

XINHUA/SHUTTERSTOCK

Doha, Qatar

MAHMUD HAMS/AFP/GETTY IMAGES

5.29am

March 1

## Trump: Iran ‘better not’ retaliate

President Trump has said the US will hit Iran “harder than they have ever been hit before” if it continued launching retaliatory strikes, after the joint US-Israeli attack on Tehran.

Posting on Truth Social, the president wrote: “Iran just stated that they are going to hit very hard today, harder than they have ever hit before. THEY BETTER NOT DO THAT, HOWEVER, BECAUSE IF THEY DO, WE WILL HIT THEM WITH A FORCE THAT HAS NEVER BEEN SEEN BEFORE! Thank you for your attention to this matter! President DONALD J TRUMP”.

5.21am

March 1

## Milei praises retribution for 1994 bombing

Javier Milei, the president of Argentina

REUTERS/DENIS BALIBOUSE

Argentina’s President Milei praised the joint operation carried out by the United States and Israel that resulted in the death of Khamenei, who he described as “one of the most evil, violent and cruel individuals in modern history”.

In his statement, Milei also recalled the 1994 attack on the Argentine Jewish community centre known as Amia in Buenos Aires. The bombing killed 85 people and injured hundreds more, marking one of the deadliest attacks in the country’s history.

The president reaffirmed that pursuing justice for the victims of the Amia bombing remained state policy. “We will continue until the last person responsible pays with his freedom or his life for this horrific crime,” Milei said.

5.05am

March 1

## Iran launches barrage of missile attacks around Middle East

A strike in Doha

MAHMUD HAMS/AFP/GETTY IMAGES

An Iranian projectile trails above the Israeli-occupied West Bank city of Ramallah

ZAIN JAAFAR/AFP/GETTY IMAGES

Blasts were heard in three Gulf cities and Iraq, while sirens sounded across central Israel for the first time since Iran confirmed the death of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.

Air-raid sirens repeatedly sounded across Israel shortly after 6am, warning residents of an incoming attack. In Tel Aviv, a series of explosions were heard as Israel’s sophisticated air defence system sought to intercept the latest Iranian offensive. There was no immediate report of any damage or injuries.

Witnesses in the Gulf cities of Dubai and Doha heard several loud blasts. This morning Iran also appears to have targeted US bases in Manama and Iraq, as part of its retaliatory strikes.

Since yesterday Iran has fired missiles at Kuwait, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain, all of which have a US military presence and said they had intercepted Iranian missiles. Jordan also intercepted missiles.

4.52am

March 1

## Strikes hit Doha

Several loud blasts have also been heard in the Qatari capital Doha for a second day on Sunday, witnesses told Reuters, after Iran launched retaliatory strikes on neighbouring Gulf states in response to US and Israeli strikes on the Islamic Republic.

Iran has said it would target US bases in the region. It has hit a range of other targets.

4.38am

March 1

## China tells citizens to leave Iran and Israel

People gather to mourn the ayatollah in Tehran

REUTERS/MAJID ASGARIPOUR/WANA

On Sunday China’s foreign ministry urged its citizens in Iran to leave “as soon as possible”, listing four land routes to Azerbaijan, Armenia, Turkey and Iraq.

It comes after China’s embassy in Israel issued a notice advising Chinese citizens there to evacuate to safer areas within the country as soon as possible or to leave for Egypt via the Taba border crossing.

China has condemned the US-Israeli strikes on Iran, with the state-run Xinhua news agency calling it “brazen aggression against a sovereign nation” and “power politics and hegemony”.

4.25am

March 1

## Explosions in Dubai as Iran strikes back

Missiles are intercepted over Dubai in the early hours of Sunday morning

EPA/STRINGER

Several loud bangs have been heard in Dubai, witnesses told Reuters, as Iran launches retaliatory strikes at targets across the Middle East. Loud explosions were also heard early on Sunday near Erbil airport, Iraq, which hosts US-led coalition troops in Iraq’s autonomous Kurdistan region.

A plume of smoke rises near Erbil international airport in Iraq

SHVAN HARKI/AFP/GETTY IMAGES

Explosions have been heard across the Gulf as Iran responded with a salvo of missiles, including in the United Arab Emirates’ capital of Abu Dhabi and Dubai, leading to Dubai international airport suspending all flights.

4.04am

March 1

## Iranian president to lead transition of power

The Iranian president Masoud Pezeshkian and two other top officials will lead Iran in the transitional period after the death of the supreme leader, state television reported on Sunday.

The judiciary chief Gholamhossein Mohseni Ejei and another official from the country’s legal council will be part of the trio overseeing the transition, according to state television which cited Mohammad Mokhber, one of Khamenei’s advisers.

3.33am

March 1

## Two top regime figures killed alongside ayatollah

Iran has confirmed the death of two key figures in its regime.

The country’s judiciary said Mohammad Pakpour, the commander of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, and Ali Shamkhani, the top adviser to Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, were killed on Saturday.

Israel had previously claimed the two Iranians were killed in airstrikes along with the regime’s defence minister, Aziz Nasirzadeh, who it claims was responsible for the production of its weapons including “long-range surface-to-surface missiles and weapons that were transferred to Iranian proxies”.

2.29am

March 1

## Revolutionary Guard threatens ‘regret-inducing’ revenge

The Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps has released a statement mourning the death of the supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and seemed to threaten those responsible with revenge.

In a message released by the state media company Fars, the body said “a severe, decisive and regret-inducing punishment” was coming and announced the start of “the most devastating offensive operation in the history of the Islamic Republic of Iran”.

It said military action would begin in “just moments” and target “occupied territories and American terrorist bases” in the region.

The branch of the Iranian armed forces said that they had “lost a great leader and we mourn him”. It added that Khamenei’s “martyrdom at hands of the most vicious terrorists and executioners of humanity is a sign of the legitimacy of this great leader and the acceptance of his sincere services”.

Its statement said that the “Iranian nation’s hand of revenge … will not let them go” and promised to be “firm in confronting domestic and foreign conspiracies”.

On Saturday night the Israel Defence Forces claimed its strikes had killed the commander of the Revolutionary Guard, Mohammad Pakpour.

2.15am

March 1

## Hegseth: Threaten Americans and we will kill you

Pete Hegseth watches Trump’s State of the Union speech on Tuesday

KENNY HOLSTON AND JESSICA KOSCIELNIAK/CNP/SPLASH

The secretary of defence Pete Hegseth said that the US-Israeli strikes on Iran were the “consequences” of its political actions and threatened its leaders with further military action.

“The Iranian regime had their chance, yet refused to make a deal — and now they are suffering the consequences,” Hegseth wrote on X.

“We will not tolerate powerful missiles targeting the American people. Those missiles will be destroyed, along with Iran’s missile production. The Iranian navy will be destroyed. And, as President Trump has said his entire life, Iran will never have a nuclear weapon.”

Hegseth has been monitoring the strikes with Trump from Mar-a-Lago.

He continued: “The United States did not start this conflict, but we will finish it. If you kill or threaten Americans anywhere in the world — as Iran has — then we will hunt you down, and we will kill you.”

1.57am

March 1

## Some ‘good candidates’ to replace Khamenei, Trump says

President Trump told CBS News that there were some “good candidates” to lead Iran following the reported death of supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.

Asked who was running the country in his absence, Trump said: “I know exactly who, but I can’t tell you.”

When pushed on whether there was someone in particular he would like to lead, he said there were “some good candidates”.

1.52am

March 1

## Iran announces 40 days of public mourning

Iranian state media has announced 40 days of public mourning and seven days of holiday, after it confirmed the death of supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei by US-Israeli strikes.

It also confirmed that Khamenei was killed in the early hours of Saturday morning at his office in Tehran.

“It is announced to the martyr-nurturing people of Iran that Grand Ayatollah Khamenei, the Supreme Leader of the Islamic Revolution, was martyred in a joint attack by the criminal United States and the Zionist regime,” said a semi-official government news agency in a statement.

“This great scholar and fighter devoted his life to the elevation of Iran and Islam, and, God willing, is united with the Imam and the Master of Martyrs.”

1.35am

March 1

## Iran confirms Khamenei’s death

Iranian state media has confirmed the death of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.

The Tasnim and Fars news agencies have confirmed the death of the country’s leader, hours after President Trump said that he had been killed in US-Israeli strikes.

“The Supreme Leader of Iran Has Reached Martyrdom,” state broadcaster IRIB reported on Sunday morning.

1.22am

March 1

## Family members of supreme leader ‘also killed’

A number of family members of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei were killed in US-Israeli strikes, according to Iranian state media on Sunday morning.

His daughter, grandchild, daughter-in-law and son-in-law died, according to the reports, in strikes early on Saturday morning that struck Khamenei’s compound in Tehran.

Iran has yet to confirm whether Khamenei also died in the attacks on Saturday morning, despite President Trump claiming the leader had been killed.

12.52am

March 1

## Israel begins another wave of strikes

The Israel Defence Forces (IDF) said it has begun another wave of strikes on Iran, according to a statement on Sunday morning.

It said the new wave of attacks was targeting Iran’s “ballistic missile array and the aerial defence systems”.

Iranian news agency Tasnim has reported that further explosions have been heard in Tehran.

12.47am

March 1

## One person killed at Abu Dhabi airport

A drone strike at Zayed International Airport in Abu Dhabi killed one person and injured seven, the airport said in a statement on social media.

“Authorities in Abu Dhabi are responding to an attack at Zayed International Airport by a drone resulting in one fatality involving an Asian national and seven injuries,” it posted on X after retaliatory missile and drone attacks by Iran.

In Israel, the country’s emergency service has said that one person was killed after a missile struck Tel Aviv.

The emergency services “provided medical treatment and evacuated a total of 121 casualties to hospitals nationwide, including: a woman in her fifties who was killed, 2 patients in moderate condition, and 119 in mild condition,” said the Magen David Adom, the country’s national emergency services.

12.16am

March 1

## Trump due at Maga fundraiser tonight

President Trump will attend a fundraiser tonight at Mar-a-Lago after a day of strikes and escalating attacks in the Middle East.

“President Trump still intends to stop by the fundraiser being held at Mar-a-Lago this evening for the Republican Party, which is more important than ever,” the White House press secretary, Karoline Leavitt, said.

The Maga Inc dinner will raise money for his super-pac and was listed on his public schedule.

The president has so far co-ordinated the attacks from a makeshift control centre at his “winter White House” in Palm Beach.

12.01am

March 1

## UAE intercepts hundreds of missiles and drones

The United Arab Emirates ministry of defense said it had intercepted 137 ballistic missiles and 194 drones, 14 of which fell into the sea.

Falling debris caused “minor material damage to a number of civilian facilities,” Emirates News Agency wrote.

11.46pm

February 28

## Blaze breaks out at major port in Dubai

A fire has broken out in Dubai at one of the world’s busiest ports after debris from an interceptor triggered the blaze, according to officials.

Authorities on Saturday night were working to extinguish a fire at the Jebel Ali port, the world’s ninth-busiest and the Middle East’s biggest port.

It also hosts US warships and is capable of handling aircraft carriers.

“Dubai Civil Defence teams responded immediately and are continuing their efforts to fully extinguish the fire,” the Dubai Media Office said in a post on its official X account.

11.32pm

February 28

## This is a war crime, Iran tells UN

The Iranian ambassador to the UN has told the security council that Iran is invoking its lawful right to self-defence as it continues to retaliate in the Middle East.

Amir Saeid Iravani described the US-Israeli strikes on Iran as illegal. “The invocation to ‘preemptive attack,’ claims of imminent threat, or other unsubstantiated political claims, are unfounded legally, morally and politically,” he said. “This is not only an act of aggression, it is a war crime and a crime against humanity.”

He said Iran would continue to defend itself “without hesitation” until the aggression ceases.

10.55pm

February 28

## Iranian media denounces Trump’s ‘baseless’ claims

Iranian state media has called President Trump’s claims regarding the attacks on Tehran as “baseless”.

A report was shared to Telegram on Saturday night, translated by NBC News, but it was not clear which “baseless” claims it referred to. In the hours before, Trump claimed the country’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, had been killed.

“It is worth noting that Trump has a long record of spreading false and fabricated news,” said the report. “Among previous examples of this behavior is his claim about the fall of the city of Mashhad, which was later shown to have no factual basis and to have been merely media sensationalism.”

10.50pm

February 28

## Senior Tory calls ayatollah an ‘evil tyrant’

Dame Priti Patel, the shadow foreign secretary, said “no one should shed any tears” for Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.

In a post on X, she wrote: “He was an evil tyrant who suppressed the rights and freedoms of Iranians and butchered them.

“He threatened international stability and our interests. And he turned Iran into the most prolific state sponsor of terrorism, spreading his despotic ideology across the region and responsible for bloodshed, murder and misery.

“We must all now work towards a future with a free and peaceful Iran.”

10.45pm

February 28

## US ambassador defends ‘lawful’ bombing

The US ambassador to the United Nations, Mike Waltz, defended military strikes on Iran, calling them “lawful actions”.

He told the UN security council: “The international community has long affirmed a simple and necessary principle, Iran cannot have a nuclear weapon. That principle is not a matter of politics, it’s a matter of global security, and to that end, the United States is taking awful actions this month.”

Waltz said that Operation Epic Fury was “directed towards specific” military targets, aiming to prevent Iran from making or using nuclear weapons.

“Diplomacy cannot succeed where there is no genuine willingness to cease aggression, where there is no genuine partner for peace,” he continued.

Waltz spoke at the council’s emergency meeting and is the first US official, other than President Donald Trump, to speak publicly about the US-Israeli attacks.

10.45pm

February 28

## Dubai’s Burj Al Arab catches fire

A fire broke out on the luxury hotel Burj Al Arab after a drone was intercepted in the city’s airspace, according to the Dubai Media Office.

It wrote: “A drone had been intercepted and its shrapnel caused a limited fire on the exterior facade of the Burj Al Arab Hotel and civil defence teams were able to control the incident without any injuries occurring.”

The Burj Al Arab is marketed as one of the world’s only “seven-star” hotels, its sail-shape one of Dubai’s most recognisable landmarks.

Images on social media appeared to show flames making their way up the base of the building.

10.35pm

February 28

## Rubio scraps trip to Israel

The US secretary of state, Marco Rubio, has cancelled his visit to Israel next week, following strikes on Iran and revenge attacks throughout the Middle East.

The State Department said that the trip, which had originally been planned for Monday and Tuesday, had been called off.

Rubio is monitoring the strikes with the president from a situation room at Mar-a-Lago in Florida, along with the CIA director, John Ratcliffe, and chief of staff, Susie Wiles.

10.25pm

February 28

## Trump: I could take over whole of Iran

President Trump said he has a number of “off ramps” for the Iranian regime, after a series of strikes on Tehran.

In a phone call with the Axios news website, the president said that he will give the leadership two solutions in the face of continuing military action.

He said: “I can go long and take over the whole thing, or end it in two or three days and tell the Iranians: ‘See you again in a few years if you start rebuilding [your nuclear and missile programmes].”

10.20pm

February 28

## Watch: US military unleashes barrage of strikes

10.20pm

February 28

## Four people injured after Dubai airport hit

Four people have been injured after an attack on Dubai International Airport, the Dubai media office said on Saturday night, as Iran continued retaliatory attacks on its neighbours.

“Dubai Airports confirms that a concourse at Dubai International (DXB) sustained minor damage in an incident, which was quickly contained,” the media office said on X.

Images are circulating on social media of damage to the passenger lounge, showing thick smoke and damage to the interior of the terminal.

10.10pm

February 28

## More than 20 injured after Iran strikes Tel Aviv

Damage in Tel Aviv early on Sunday morning

RONEN ZVULUN/REUTERS

About 21 people have been injured in Tel Aviv after retaliatory strikes by Iran, according to the Israeli ambulance service.

It said that 16 of those sustained light injuries, while two were in a serious or critical condition.

In the last hour, there have been reports of more than three waves of attacks on Israel, with images of explosions on the ground as missiles made their way through the defence system.

Air raid sirens have sounded through both Tel Aviv and Jerusalem, with reports of the launch of large numbers of interceptors from the country.

9.55pm

February 28

## UN boss condemns US-Israeli strikes

The United Nations chief has condemned US-Israeli strikes on Iran, as he addressed the emergency meeting of the Security Council.

“We are witnessing a grave threat to international peace and security,” said secretary general António Guterres. “Let me be clear: There is no viable alternative to the peace settlement of international disputes.”

Guterres briefed the 15-member Security Council, after five of its members – Bahrain, France, Russia, China and Colombia – called for the emergency meeting.

It took place on the last day of the UK’s presidency of the council and a day before the US takes over the rotating presidency for March.

9.50pm

February 28

## Ayatollah Ali Khamenei obituary

AFP

For more than three decades, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei was the shadowy, enigmatic but omnipotent Supreme Leader of the Islamic Republic of Iran. Unelected and unaccountable (except, he would say, to God), he quietly manipulated all the levers of power in an oil-rich nation of 90 million people, prompting one observer to describe him as “part Pope, part commander-in-chief and part one-man Supreme Court”.

• Ayatollah Ali Khamenei obituary: supreme leader of Iran

Holding sway from a compound of some 50 buildings called Beit-e Rahbari on Palestine Street in central Tehran, he astutely played reformers off against hardliners (though as a conservative himself, he generally favoured the latter and used the former as a pressure valve). He routinely denounced the US and Britain as the Great and Small Satans, and sponsored militant anti-western Islamic groups in Iraq, Lebanon and Syria. And all the while, he approved the development of a clandestine nuclear weapons programme that could, if ever completed, threaten Israel’s very existence, destabilise the Middle East and imperil global oil supplies.

9.40pm

February 28

## Trump confirms death of ‘evil’ Ayatollah

Ayatollah Ali Khamenei is dead, President Trump said in a post on his Truth Social platform.

Trump wrote: “Khamenei, one of the most evil people in History, is dead. This is not only Justice for the people of Iran, but for all Great Americans, and those people from many Countries throughout the World, that have been killed or mutilated by Khamenei and his gang of bloodthirsty THUGS.

“He was unable to avoid our Intelligence and Highly Sophisticated Tracking Systems and, working closely with Israel, there was not a thing he, or the other leaders that have been killed along with him, could do.

“This is the single greatest chance for the Iranian people to take back their Country. We are hearing that many of their IRGC, Military, and other Security and Police Forces, no longer want to fight, and are looking for Immunity from us. As I said last night, “Now they can have Immunity, later they only get Death!”

“Hopefully, the IRGC and Police will peacefully merge with the Iranian Patriots, and work together as a unit to bring back the Country to the Greatness it deserves. That process should soon be starting in that, not only the death of Khamenei but the Country has been, in only one day, very much destroyed and, even, obliterated.

“The heavy and pinpoint bombing, however, will continue, uninterrupted throughout the week or, as long as necessary to achieve our objective of PEACE THROUGHOUT THE MIDDLE EAST AND, INDEED, THE WORLD!”

9.30pm

February 28

## Seven top Iranians killed in strikes, Israel says

The Israeli military has said that seven of Iran’s senior officials have been killed, after strikes targeted several locations throughout Tehran.

The IDF said in a statement that among those killed was Iran’s defence minister, Aziz Nasirzadeh, whom it claims was responsible for the production of its weapons including “long-range surface-to-surface missiles and weapons that were transferred to Iranian proxies”.

It also claimed the military action resulted in the deaths of the commander of the Revolutionary Guard, Mohammad Pakpour; the secretary of the Iranian security council, Ali Shamkhani; the head of the intelligence directorate; and the chairman of the SPND, the defence department responsible for the research and development of military technology.

9.00pm

February 28

## In pictures: Trump monitors airstrikes

The White House press secretary, Karoline Leavitt, has said that President Trump “just spoke” with leaders of the UK, Kuwait and Turkey, according to her post on X.

The president and his national security team are monitoring the situation in Iran from a situation room at his Florida residence, Mar-a-Lago.

President Trump confers with senior staff including Marco Rubio, right

The US secretary of state, Marco Rubio, will hold a call with foreign ministers from G7 countries on Saturday to discuss the situation in the Middle East, a US official told CNN.

The G7 is made up of the UK, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States.

8.55pm

February 28

## Trump backs reports that supreme leader is dead

President Trump seemed to confirm the death of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei in a phone call to NBC News.

“We feel that that is a correct story,” he said. “The people that make all the decisions, most of them are gone.”

The president said the US-Israeli military action was “already a success”. “We’ve inflicted tremendous damage. It would take them years to rebuild,” he said.

When asked about who would replace Khamenei as Iran’s leader, Trump said: “I don’t know, but at some point they’ll be calling me to ask who I’d like.”

8.45pm

February 28

## Trump: a lot of Iranian leaders killed

President Trump has claimed that “a lot” of the Iranian leadership has been killed in the US-Israeli strikes.

He told ABC News that the attacks would continue “as long as we wanted to” and added: “But it’s done such damage already. It’s like — they are incapacitated, essentially.”

Asked whether the US believes the regime’s leadership were killed in strikes, Trump said, “A lot of it is, yeah. But we don’t know all, but a lot of it is. It was a very powerful strike.”

The Israeli military said that seven senior Iranian officials and commanders have been killed, including the head of Iran’s Revolutionary Guards, General Mohammad Pakpour.

8.40pm

February 28

## UK nationals in Middle East urged to register with Foreign Office

The Foreign Office has requested that British nationals in the Middle East register their location.

“We recognise this is a fast-moving situation,” read a statement released on Saturday night. “This is why we are encouraging British nationals to register their presence and pay close attention to travel advice, and where relevant shelter in place.”

Those in Bahrain, Israel, the Palestinian territories, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates should submit their whereabouts to the Foreign Office’s scheme, Register Your Presence, which will enable the department to build a clearer picture of who is in the region and might need assistance or advice.

“The safety and welfare of British nationals across the Middle East is our top priority,” the statement continued. “The Foreign Office is working around the clock to respond to escalations in the region and support British nationals affected.”

8.10pm

February 28

## Inside Operation Epic Fury

The targets of the strikes appear to have been Khamenei and other senior members of the Iranian regime. “The attack was based on an operational plan developed over several months, centered on an intelligence effort … to identify an operational opportunity at the moment when senior regime officials would convene,” an Israeli official said.

“Three sites where gatherings of the Iranian terror regime were taking place were struck simultaneously, and several senior figures essential to the management of the campaign and the regime’s governance were eliminated.”

• Read in full: What happened in Iran? Inside Operation Epic Fury

7.55pm

February 28

## Ayatollah’s body ‘has been found’

The body of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has been found, according to a senior Israeli official. This has not been confirmed by Tehran or the United States.

The supreme leader of Iran was found under the rubble caused by an Israeli airstrike, the Israeli official said.

Khamenei ruled Iran since 1989, previously serving as president under the regime of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. He was 86.

Two Israeli television networks have said photos of Khamenei’s body has been shown to Trump and Netanyahu.

7.40pm

February 28

## I was in the room last time Iran was hit. This is what I learnt

Once again, American and Israeli jets are striking Tehran, (Ben Judah writes). Trump has put into action the largest US fighting force assembled in the Middle East since 2003. We are either on the verge of a major Iranian capitulation on its nuclear and missile programme, or a major war that could suck in Britain, force oil prices to spike and spread terrorism.

I worked closely on the Iran issue during my year as a special adviser in the Foreign Office. In the heat of last June’s first Israeli and US air campaign against Tehran, which has become known as the 12-Day War, I flew to Washington for talks with the Americans, and Geneva for talks with the Iranians.

• Read in full: I was in the room last time Iran was hit. This is what I learnt

7.15pm

February 28

## Netanyahu: supreme leader may be ‘no longer’

The Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, has said there were growing signs that Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the supreme leader of Iran, is “no longer”, but did not provide any further details.

Targets of the US and Israeli strikes had included Khamenei’s official residence as well as the country’s nuclear facilities. Satellite imagery showed a plume of smoke and extensive damage to Khamenei’s compound. His whereabouts are currently unclear.

• Who is Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei?

7.10pm

February 28

## Israel PM pledges airstrikes will continue

The Israeli prime minister addresses his nation

Binyamin Netanyahu said the US-Israeli attacks on Iran would last “as long as necessary”.

The Israeli prime minister called on the Iranian people to overthrow the regime. “Take to the streets en masse… get the job done”, he said.

7.00pm

February 28

## UK couple in Tehran jail unharmed, family say

Lindsay and Craig Foreman

FOREIGN, COMMONWEALTH AND DEVELOPMENT OFFICE/AFP/GETTY IMAGES

A British couple held in a Tehran jail are alive and unhurt, their family have said.

Lindsay and Craig Foreman, who had been on a motorcycle trip around the world, were arrested in January 2025 and sentenced to ten years in prison for espionage earlier this month.

In a statement the family said they were “very concerned” for their safety but had managed to speak to them on Saturday morning shortly after the strikes had begun.

They were said to be “unhurt albeit very alert to, and concerned about the danger around them”.

Their son, Joe Bennett, who has been campaigning for their release said: “We were extremely relieved to hear from our parents this morning but remain incredibly worried about their safety. Our hearts go out to the people of Iran and all others in the region who were impacted by the bombings today.”

6.40pm

February 28

## Netanyahu to address media

The Israeli prime minister, Binyamin Netanyahu, is scheduled to speak to the media in the next few minutes, according to his press co-ordinator.

6.35pm

February 28

## No reports of American casualties, US says

The US Central Command has said there have been no reports of American casualties or combat related deaths in the 12 hours since the US and Israel launched co-ordinated strikes against Iran.

A statement from Centcom said its forces have “successfully defended against hundreds of Iranian missile and drone attacks” launched in retaliation. Damage to American bases in the region has been “minimal and has not impacted operations”.

It also confirmed the US military had, for the first time, used a one-way attack drone.

6.30pm

February 28

## Over 200 dead in Iran, Red Crescent says

The Iranian Red Crescent said more than 200 people have been killed and almost 800 injured in Iran as a result of joint Israeli-American airstrikes.

The spokesman for the Red Crescent said the strikes hit 24 of Iran’s 31 provinces. He added more than 200 teams were deployed to different sites in response.

6.25pm

February 28

## In pictures: Bahrain high-rise in flames

Smoke rises from a tower after an alleged Iranian drone strike in Manama, the capital

HAMAD I MOHAMMED/REUTERS

HAMAD I MOHAMMED/REUTERS

6.25pm

February 28

## Houthis promise ‘action’

The leader of the Houthi rebels in Yemen said his militia would “take action in various activities” in solidarity with Iran.

Without elaborating further, Abdul-Malik al-Houthi said the rebel group is ready for “any necessary development” following the missile exchange today.

“The Islamic Republic is waging the battle of the entire Islamic nation against American-Israeli-Zionist tyranny,” he said in a pre-recorded speech.

6.10pm

February 28

## Starmer calls UAE and Qatari leaders

The prime minister has held calls with Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani, the emir of Qatar, and Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the president of the UAE.

A Downing Street readout of the calls said Sir Keir Starmer reaffirmed the UK’s commitment to the defence of Qatar and its allies, and expressed his solidarity with the UAE and partners across the region.

In both calls, Starmer stressed the importance of preventing further escalation and efforts to protect civilians and defend regional stability.

5.50pm

February 28

## Hundreds of flights cancelled

Almost 1,000 flights across Middle East airlines have been cancelled with this number expected to grow if the conflict continues.

Earlier today, Dubai International Airport, which handles the most international flights in the world, grounded all services as Iran attacked the UAE city state.

Abu Dhabi’s Zayed International Airport was also warning passengers they may experience delays, diversions, or cancellations, due to the temporary closure of UAE airspace.

The worst hit airline was Qatar Airways, with 219 of its 535 scheduled flights cancelled. Meanwhile, some 197 of Emirates’ 512 services were axed. So far, a total of 868 services operated by Middle East airlines have been cancelled, according to consultancy Cirium.

British Airways, Virgin Atlantic and Wizz Air have reduced services to the Middle East because of safety concerns.

There is also the danger that those flying to and from southeast Asia could be impacted as airlines face a narrower geographical corridor.

The disruption spread to Gatwick and Beirut, below

BEN STANSALL/AFP/GETTY IMAGES

HOUSSAM SHBARO/ANADOLU/GETTY IMAGES

5.40pm

February 28

## Analysis: why is the US attacking Iran?

Patience with diplomacy has expired, and a major military onslaught against Iran has started. As with any strategy for victory, the military means will need to be matched to achievable ends.

It seems from the outset that President Trump is setting the most ambitious objective: toppling the Islamic regime of the supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Announcing the strikes on Saturday, he talked about the regime’s “unending campaign of bloodshed and mass murder” against the US and its allies, as well as telling Iranians, “your hour of freedom is at hand”.

Professor Ali Ansari of St Andrews University believes “it’s a huge gamble”. With talk now of deposing the Islamic regime, he adds: “A lot of assumptions will be tested in the next few weeks, but much will depend upon how the Iranian population reacts — that’s the key question.”

• Mark Urban: why is the US attacking Iran? Trump’s ‘huge gamble’ explained

5.25pm

February 28

## ‘Dozens killed after missile hits Iranian primary school’

The United States has confirmed it is “aware of reports” that a strike hit a girl’s school in southern Iran. Captain Tim Hawkins, a spokesman for US Central Command, said the military takes the reports “seriously” and it is investigating.

A statement from a local prosecutor in the city of Minab claimed more than 80 people were killed after a missile struck the elementary school. A large proportion of those killed are thought to be students.

Iranian journalists at Factname, an independent news organisation, claimed to have verified that the school lies next to a building belonging to the IRGC.

5.20pm

February 28

## Israeli airstrikes were its biggest ever

The IDF said today’s attacks were the largest strikes in the history of the Israeli air force.

It said about 200 fighter jets completed a “broad strike against the missile array and defence systems of the Iranian terrorist regime in western and central Iran”.

Around 500 targets have been struck across the country since this morning, including anti-aircraft batteries and missile launchers. The Israeli air force said targets included a surface-to-surface missile launch site in the area of Tabriz, eastern Iran.

5.15pm

February 28

## Four injured in Dubai hotel fire

# X (Twitter) content blocked

Please enable cookies and other technologies to view this content. You can update your cookies preferences any time using privacy manager.

Enable cookiesAllow cookies once

5.10pm

February 28

## Matthew Syed: I want a free Iran but don’t trust Trump

The deep ambivalence I feel as I write these words relates in no way to my utter contempt for the Iranian regime, my desire for the Iranian people to be freed from its almost 50-year reign of tyranny and the sense that the future of the Middle East, and the wider world, would be brighter without this blight.

Who could not agree with the sentiment of Donald Trump when he alluded to a better future if the Iranian people would “seize control of your destiny” and become what they have been so often in the past, not least during the Achaemenid, Sasanian and Safavid eras: a cultured, literate beacon to the world.

• Matthew Syed: I want a free Iran, but deep down I don’t trust Trump to do it

Let us not forget that for centuries, when most of the West was still labouring in the dark, the Persian civilisation, from where my father drew his ancestry, was making pioneering contributions to engineering, administration, agriculture and more.

4.50pm

February 28

## In pictures: Israel under attack

Vehicles in Rosh Haayin destroyed by an Iranian missile

ABIR SULTAN/EPA

Israel’s Iron Dome defence system intercepts Iranian missiles over Tel Aviv

JACK GUEZ/AFP/GETTY IMAGES

4.40pm

February 28

## UK advises ships to transit key strait ‘with caution’

The UK’s Maritime Trade Operations (UKMTO) agency said it has received multiple reports of vessels claiming the Strait of Hormuz has been closed. It said the reports have not been independently verified, but warned there are indications of ongoing military operations in the wider region.

In an advisory notice, the agency said vessels are “advised to transit with caution” and to report any interference to UKMTO.

The US transport department also urged commercial vessels to stay away from the Strait of Hormuz, Persian Gulf, Gulf of Oman and Arabian Sea, which are subject to “significant military action.” The agency said: “It is recommended that vessels keep clear of this area if possible.”

4.30pm

February 28

## In pictures: war comes to Tehran

The aftermath of an explosion near the University of Tehran on Saturday

ALAMY

WANA/REUTERS

3.20pm

February 28

## EU defence meeting on Monday

Ursula von der Leyen has said she will convene a special meeting of the European Security and Defence College on Monday.

The president of the European Commission said: “For regional security and stability, it is of the utmost importance that there is no further escalation through Iran’s unjustified attacks on partners in the region.”

4.05pm

February 28

## Protection for UK bases ‘at highest level’

John Healey, the defence secretary, has said force protection for British bases and personnel is “at the highest levels”.

“My first priority is the safety of our UK armed forces,” Healey said on social media. “And British jets are flying today as part of regional defensive operations in the Middle East to protect our people, our interests and our allies.”

The defence secretary re-confirmed that Britain played “no role” in today’s attacks.

4.00pm

February 28

## Israel ‘eliminates senior Iranian officials’

Israel has eliminated several senior figures essential to the regime’s governance, according to an Israeli military official (Gabrielle Weiniger writes).

The source said today’s strikes were launched against hundreds of targets in Iranian territory, including three sites where gatherings of Iranian officials were taking place. Those three strikes were made simultaneously.

The targets were identified over an intelligence gathering operation lasting “thousands of hours”, including several months of operational planning, the official said. It was led by the IDF in close co-operation with the US.

Iran now appears to be downplaying the extent of the damage, by imposing internet blackouts and increasing its deployment of military and police forces.

4.00pm

February 28

## Iran ‘orders closure of the Strait of Hormuz’

Iran has reportedly closed the Strait of Hormuz, according to an European Union official speaking to Reuters.

The official, who belongs to the EU military operation in the region, called Aspides, said ships have begun receiving VHF transmissions from Iran’s Revolutionary Guard. The transmissions reportedly say “no ship is allowed to pass the Strait of Hormuz”.

Closing the strait will have serious implications for the global oil market, with roughly a fifth of the world’s oil supply passing through it.

3.55pm

February 28

## Luxury Dubai hotel in flames following explosion

An explosion in Dubai has resulted in the luxury Fairmont Hotel catching fire, it has been reported.

Reuters reported that witnesses heard loud bangs and saw smoke rising over Dubai at around 7:30pm local time.

Videos shared on social media appeared to show the popular British tourist destination engulfed by flames on Saturday.

3.45pm

February 28

## ‘We are not sure we will survive. The war is terrifying’

Elham, a 35-year-old carpet seller living in Tehran’s Jomhouri area, where government buildings are located, told The Sunday Times of what it is like on the ground in the Iranian capital.

“We have heard loud blasts and seen fires and plumes of smoke rising from the buildings. My children are terrified and crying; they are scared of the bombs,” he said.

“We are hiding in the basement and occasionally go upstairs to look out the window. These are tough times, and we are not sure we will survive. The war is terrifying.”

3.40pm

February 28

## US reaction divided by party

Americans have been waking to the news that Donald Trump has launched a ‘major combat operation’ against Iran, Katy Balls, Washington Editor, writes.

After the US president used a video address to warn that the military operation could last days and weeks and American lives may be lost, US lawmakers are starting to react.

So far, the response has largely fallen into party lines. Democrats have criticised the president with senator Ed Markey describing the military attack as “illegal and unconstitutional” and his colleague Andy Kim likening Trump’s decision to the “same dangerous and foolish decision president [George] Bush did a generation ago”.

So far Republicans have largely rowed in behind the Trump administration. Senator John Cornyn has spoken of his pride that Trump is supporting the Iranian people.

Notably, many figures in the Maga movement who have long railed against foreign interventions are currently keeping their powder dry. As for the likely reaction of the American public, recent polling by YouGov ahead of the strikes found concern among Americans over US military action against Iran, with about half (49 per cent) opposed.

3.40pm

February 28

## Iran asks the UN to intervene

Iran’s foreign minister has written a letter to the UN security council ahead of its meeting at 9pm tonight.

In the letter, Abbas Araghchi asked for the council to intervene and accused Israel and the US of violating international law.

“The United States and the Israeli regime shall bear full and direct responsibility for all ensuing consequences, including any escalation arising from their unlawful actions,” he said.

“All bases, facilities, and assets of the hostile forces in the region shall be regarded as legitimate military objectives within the framework of Iran’s lawful exercise of self-defence.”

3.35pm

February 28

## Explosion heard in Dubai

AFP correspondents heard a loud explosion in Dubai on February 28 and one of them saw a plume of smoke rising from the city, with photos showing projectiles falling over the city in the UAE.

AFP/GETTY IMAGES

AFP/GETTY IMAGES

3.15pm

February 28

## Ayatollah is alive, says Iranian minister

Iran’s foreign minister has said Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the country’s supreme leader, is still alive “as far as I know”.

Abbas Araghchi told the BBC and NBC that one or two commanders may have been killed in the US-Israeli strikes but claimed that “all high-ranking officials” had survived.

It follows reports in Israeli media that Khamenei was “likely killed” or injured during the co-ordinated attack on Saturday morning.

3.10pm

February 28

## Conflict could push petrol to pre-pandemic highs

Drivers face a rise in petrol prices to above pre-pandemic highs if America’s attack on Iran disrupts oil markets and combines with the Treasury’s forthcoming reversal of a 5p-a-litre fuel-duty cut.

Oil prices are expected to rise when the New York futures market opens at 11pm UK time on Sunday as President Trump’s joint assault with Israel affects crucial shipping lanes. These could be tempered by the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries agreeing to an increase in output at a meeting on Sunday.

Nevertheless, Edmund King, president of the AA said: “The turmoil and bombing across the Middle East will surely be a catalyst to disrupt oil distribution globally, which will inevitably lead to price hikes. So drivers beware, within the next 10 to 12 days we could be seeing record prices at the pumps.”

• Read in full: Iran attack’s effect on oil prices could push petrol to pre-pandemic highs

3.05pm

February 28

## Zelensky backs strikes

President Zelensky of Ukraine has added his support for military strikes on Iran. He called the country “an accomplice of Putin” because it has supplied Shahed drones to Russia during its invasion of Ukraine.

In a statement on social media, Zelensky said: “It is important that the United States is acting decisively. Whenever there is American resolve, global criminals weaken. This understanding must also come to the Russians.”

3.03pm

February 28

## UN security council to meet at 9pm

The United Nations security council will convene an emergency meeting at 9pm GMT to discuss the joint US-Israeli attacks on Iran, after requests by France, Bahrain and Iran.

3.00pm

February 28

## PM: British planes are in the sky in ‘defensive op’

Sir Keir Starmer said British planes are in the sky “as part of a co-ordinated regional defensive operation” to protect “our people, our interests and our allies”.

Speaking from Downing Street, the prime minister said it was “vital we prevent further escalation” and return to a diplomatic process.

He said: “We want to see peace and security and the protection of civilian life. Iran can end this now. They should refrain from further strikes, give up their weapons programmes and cease the appalling violence and repression against the Iranian people who deserve the right to determine their own future in line with our long standing position. This is the route to de-escalation and back to the negotiating table.”

Starmer speaking in Downing Street on Saturday

2.58pm

February 28

## Iranian regime utterly abhorrent, says Starmer

Sir Keir Starmer has been speaking from Downing Street this afternoon.

The prime minister said the UK “played no role in these strikes” but added: “We have long been clear that the regime in Iran is utterly abhorrent.”

He said: “They have murdered thousands of their own people, brutally crushed dissent and sought to destabilise the region. Even in the UK, the Iranian regime poses a direct threat to dissidents and to the Jewish community.”

Starmer said that over the past year, Iran had backed more than 20 “potentially lethal attacks” on UK soil. “So it is clear they must never be allowed to develop a nuclear weapon. That remains the primary aim of the United Kingdom and our allies, including the US.”

2.44pm

February 28

## UK, France and Germany condemn Iran

Britain, France and Germany have called for the resumption of negotiations and condemned the Iranian reprisal attacks in the Middle East.

Sir Keir Starmer, President Macron and Friedrich Merz said jointly that the three countries “have consistently urged the Iranian regime to end Iran’s nuclear programme, curb its ballistic missile program, refrain from its destabilising activity in the region and our homelands, and to cease the appalling violence and repression against its own people”.

“We did not participate in these strikes, but are in close contact with our international partners, including the United States, Israel, and partners in the region. We reiterate our commitment to regional stability and to the protection of civilian life.”

The statement said Iran “must refrain from indiscriminate military strikes. We call for a resumption of negotiations and urge the Iranian leadership to seek a negotiated solution. Ultimately, the Iranian people must be allowed to determine their future.”

2.15pm

February 28

## Christina Lamb: Why I’m fearful about what’s ahead

Having covered the US-backed interventions in Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya, all of which quickly toppled regimes but none of which ended well, it is hard for me not to fear the worst from this one, particularly as there is so little clarity about what exactly Trump’s aims are (writes chief foreign correspondent Christina Lamb).

In his speech he talked of regime change but to do that you need boots on the ground — and it also implies you have an alternative to take over. Iran is a huge country of 94 million people and for the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps(IRGC), which numbers at least 125,000, the regime’s survival is ideological as well as existential.

Talking to activists and doctors last month about the horrific crackdown in which an estimated 30,000 people are now thought to have been killed, we saw the lengths to which the IRGC and regime are prepared to go. It is hard not to feel fearful about what may lie ahead.

1.58pm

February 28

## ‘The people of Iran support this intervention’

Reza Pahlavi, the son of the last shah of Iran, who lives in the United States, told The Sunday Times in a statement: “The people of Iran support this targeted, humanitarian military intervention. But the future of Iran is in the hands of the people. They are the boots on the ground. They stand ready to act.

“We have built a civil disobedience movement in every province ready to mobilise at the right time. Alongside this we have thousands of members of the security forces who are prepared to defend the people.”

He said he was involved in “transition planning” to lead Iran to democracy and had created the “emergency phase booklet of the Iran Prosperity Project, a blueprint to manage a peaceful, stable transition after the collapse of the regime”.

1.27pm

February 28

## Britain ‘could support US action’

Sir Ben Wallace, the former defence secretary, said the UK could legally support US military action against Iran, as the country poses an imminent threat.

Speaking to Times Radio, Wallace said Trump’s speech “sets out terms where the United Kingdom could support him in a mutual defence position where we would come to the aid or support of an ally on request.”

He said it is for the US to “lay out its evidence to the British government … and say, we believe this was an imminent threat and then we would like your support.”

Wallace added that Europe was likely to face increased fuel prices if Iran restricts the flow of oil through the Strait of Hormuz, which it has threatened to do.

# X (Twitter) content blocked

Please enable cookies and other technologies to view this content. You can update your cookies preferences any time using privacy manager.

Enable cookiesAllow cookies once

1.22pm

February 28

## ‘I was doing a regular shop when I heard a boom’

Smoke rises in Manama, Bahrain

ANADOLU/GETTY IMAGES

Jane, a British expat living in Bahrain with her husband and two primary school-aged children, told The Sunday Times that people heard the explosion at a US naval base from 15km away.

“I was on the other side of the island when we got public alerts and heard the sirens,” she said. “We can see the drifting smoke from our rooftop.”

She said her family has been told by the Bahraini government and the UK and US embassies to stay home and avoid travelling. Her father, who is visiting the family, was in the centre of Manama, close to the base, when the attack took place.

“I was doing a regular supermarket shop when the news of the naval base strike came in, and the supermarket was soon crazy busy with people filling trollies with water and canned goods. We’ve just heard another big boom. We are feeling a bit anxious but are OK and sitting tight.”

1.17pm

February 28

## ‘Armed patrols and arrests’ in Iran

An Iranian activist, who asked to remain anonymous, wrote from Iran: “The situation is chaotic; almost everywhere has become deserted. People have gone back to their homes.

“There are long lines at bakeries and gas stations. Plainclothes forces and special units are patrolling … armed and fully equipped. They are arresting some people they find suspicious.”

1.08pm

February 28

## Sheltering Israelis resigned to familiar pattern

Israelis take shelter under the bridge of a highway near Latrun

AMIR COHEN/REUTERS

“Even when we’re given just the alert to go to the shelter, my heart drops,” said one woman as she went down to the basement of a car park (writes Gabrielle Weiniger in Israel).

A few minutes’ warning is given when missiles are fired towards Israel from Iran, with alerts sounded on phones, giving people time to get to a safe space before an air raid siren is sounded.

With only eight months since the last intense exchange of fire between the two countries, many Israelis feel resigned to the familiar pattern of heading between home and safe rooms or shelters at brief intervals.

“I wish I could just have a normal Saturday, go to the beach, go for a run,” said Yvette Cohen, a French-Israeli with a young son. “But maybe we have to go through this so we can have a better life without terror.”

1.02pm

February 28

## US action ‘unprovoked, illegal and illegitimate’

Iran’s foreign minister has said that today’s military action is “wholly unprovoked, illegal and illegitimate.”

In a post on X, Abbas Araghchi said: “Trump has turned ‘America First’ into ‘Israel First’ — which always means ‘America Last’. Our powerful armed forces are prepared for this day and will teach the aggressors the lessons they deserve.”

Araghchi attached a screenshot of a 2012 post by Trump, claiming that Barack Obama was about to attack Libya or Iran because his poll numbers were “in tailspin.”

12.50pm

February 28

## ‘Successful regime change highly uncertain’

“The new strikes on Iran mark a sharper escalation than the 12-day war: launched in the morning and reportedly targeting senior leadership and security nodes, they suggest a decapitation strategy with direct US involvement from the outset,” Fatemeh Aman, an Iran expert and a former non-resident fellow at the Middle East Institute and senior fellow at the Atlantic Council, told The Sunday Times.

“Iran responded within hours with missile attacks on Israel and reported strikes on US bases, while regional fronts like the Red Sea are reigniting — indicating a broader, faster and more dangerous conflict with few remaining ‘red lines’.

“As for toppling the regime, history suggests that air and missile campaigns alone rarely bring down entrenched governments without major internal fractures or ground intervention, making successful regime change highly uncertain and potentially far more complex than initial strikes imply,” Aman added.

12.47pm

February 28

## Peace is the best medicine, says WHO boss

The director-general of the World Health Organisation has said “peace is the best medicine,” in response to US and Israeli strikes on Iran.

Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said he was “deeply troubled” by the unfolding crisis in the Middle East, adding: “My heart goes out to the civilians trapped in the crossfire.”

He continued: “Regardless of borders, everyone deserves to live without the threat of violence around them. Today, we urge leaders to choose the challenging path of dialogue over the senseless route of destruction. The world is watching and hoping for wisdom to prevail over weapons. Peace is the best medicine.”

12.45pm

February 28

## Israelis wake to air raid sirens

After weeks of anticipation and uncertainty, Israelis woke up on Saturday morning to an air raid siren that alerted them to a fresh war with Iran (writes Gabrielle Weiniger in Israel).

In Tel Aviv, cafés stayed open as people ordered coffee and sat on boulevards waiting for the first round of retaliation. By early afternoon, people had been told to go to shelters five times. The streets quickly fell quiet of cars, the streets empty apart from lone soldiers with weapons and people walking to their cars with suitcases.

Those who could leave the major cities drove away with the expectation that the worst was yet to come.

Some tourists, stuck inside Israel with the skies shut, searched for ways to get out of the region safely by land.

12.39pm

February 28

## Omani mediator ‘dismayed’ by strikes

The Omani foreign minister who was mediating talks between the US and Iran has said he is “dismayed” by the military action this morning.

Badr Albusaidi said: “Active and serious negotiations have yet again been undermined. Neither the interests of the United States nor the cause of global peace are well served by this.”

Albusaidi said he was praying “for the innocents who will suffer,” adding: “I urge the United States not to get sucked in further. This is not your war.”

12.31pm

February 28

## Australian PM endorses strikes

Anthony Albanese, the prime minister of Australia, said his government endorsed the US attacks.

“We support the United States acting to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon and to prevent Iran continuing to threaten international peace and security,” he said in a statement.

“For decades, the Iranian regime has been a destabilising force, through its ballistic missile and nuclear programs, support for armed proxies, and brutal acts of violence and intimidation.

“Australia stands with the brave people of Iran in their struggle against oppression.”

12.16pm

February 28

## IDF says months of planning led to attack

The Israel Defence Forces (IDF) has provided some additional information on how the attack this morning was carried out.

Israeli officials said strikes were carried out simultaneously across Tehran, targeting senior figures in the political and security leadership of the country.

They said the plan was prepared “over months” with “thousands of hours of intensive intelligence work” focused on identifying an opportunity to strike when the senior regime officials were gathering together.

The IDF statement added that it was preparing for combat to “develop in additional arenas” and that it was currently assessing the results of the attack.

12.12pm

February 28

## Macron calls for security council meeting

Emmanuel Macron, the French president, has called for an urgent meeting of the United Nations Security Council, following the exchange of missile strikes this morning.

In a post on social media, Macron said the outbreak of war had “grave consequences for international peace and security”, but added France “stands ready” to deploy resources to its allies if asked.

“The current escalation is dangerous for everyone. It must stop. The Iranian regime must understand that it now has no other option than to engage in good-faith negotiations to end its nuclear and ballistic missile programs, as well as its actions to destabilise the region. This is absolutely essential for the security of everyone in the Middle East,” he said.

“True to its principles and mindful of its international responsibilities, France calls for an urgent meeting of the United Nations Security Council.”

12.03pm

February 28

## Forty killed in strike on school, Iran says

Iranian state media has claimed that a missile launched by Israel and the US struck a girl’s elementary school in Minab, in southern Iran.

IRNA, a state-run media agency, said that at least 40 people were killed at the school and another 48 others have been wounded.

Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps has a base in Minab, which sits on the Strait of Hormuz. Neither the US nor Israel has offered any comment on the campaign.

11.54am

February 28

## Iran reaches out to regional counterparts

Iran’s foreign minister called upon regional counterparts to prevent the US and Israel from “abusing their territory” to carry out aggressive operations against Iran.

Abbas Araghchi told counterparts from Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Qatar, Kuwait, Bahrain and Iraq that it would use all its defensive and military capabilities under the legitimate right of self-defence, in a post on Telegram.

An Iran-aligned Iraqi group, Kataib Hezbollah, said it would soon attack US bases, Reuters reported, though it is not known which sites are to be targeted.

11.47am

February 28

## Is it safe to travel to the Middle East?

The Middle East is in a febrile state after Israel and the US have launched co-ordinated strikes on Iran in what President Trump called a “major combat operation”.

On Friday, February 27, the UK Foreign Office updated its travel advice to warn against all but essential travel to Israel and Palestine, and against all travel to some parts of those areas. It continues to advise against all travel to Iran. Israel has declared a nationwide state of emergency, with residents warned to stay close to bomb shelters. Its airspace is shut.

Increased regional tensions will have a knock-on impact for travel in the region, including for routes that fly over the Middle East, such as via Gulf hubs Qatar and the UAE.

• Read article in full: Is it safe to travel to the Middle East right now? Latest advice

11.41am

February 28

## Image ‘shows destruction at ayatollah’s compound’

AIRBUS

An image published by Airbus appears to show the first publicly released satellite visual of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei’s compound in Tehran.

The image shows a number of destroyed buildings and a plume of black smoke emerging from the rubble.

Iran has said that Khamenei is safe and has been moved to a secure location. The compound, which was struck during the first round of missile attacks this morning, is used as the supreme leader’s official residence.

11.40am

February 28

## Why is the US attacking Iran?

Patience with diplomacy has expired, and a major military onslaught against Iran has started. As with any strategy for victory, the military means will need to be matched to achievable ends.

It seems from the outset that President Trump is setting the most ambitious objective: toppling the Islamic regime of the supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Announcing the strikes on Saturday, he talked about the regime’s “unending campaign of bloodshed and mass murder” against the US and its allies, as well as telling Iranians, “your hour of freedom is at hand”.

Professor Ali Ansari of St Andrews University believes “it’s a huge gamble”. With talk now of deposing the Islamic regime, he adds: “a lot of assumptions will be tested in the next few weeks, but much will depend upon how the Iranian population reacts — that’s the key question”.

• Read Mark Urban’s analysis in full: Why is the US attacking Iran? Trump’s ‘huge gamble’ explained

11.30am

February 28

## Cobra meeting concludes

Downing Street said the prime minister had concluded an emergency Cobra meeting on Iran.

Sir Keir Starmer chaired the discussion after the US and Israeli strikes, in which the UK did not participate. It is understood that he will conduct a series of calls with allies over the coming hours.

11.27am

February 28

## Saudis denounce Iranian reprisals

Saudi Arabia has condemned Iran’s retaliatory attacks on several countries in the Middle East, including the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Bahrain.

A statement from the Saudi foreign ministry said: “The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia condemns and denounces in the strongest terms the brutal Iranian aggression and the blatant violation of the sovereignty of the United Arab Emirates, the Kingdom of Bahrain, the State of Qatar, the State of Kuwait and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, affirming its full solidarity and standing with the sisterly countries, and placing all its capabilities to support them in all the measures they take, and warning of the grave consequences of the continued violation of the sovereignty of states and the principles of international law.”

11.22am

February 28

## Iran has fired more missiles, IDF says

The Israel Defence Forces said another round of missiles were launched from Iran towards Israel.

In a social media post, Israel’s military said defence systems were working to “intercept the threat”.

The statement said: “In recent minutes, the home front command distributed advance warnings directly to mobile phones in the relevant areas.”

11.18am

February 28

## Kremlin calls for return to diplomacy

Russia urged an immediate halt to US and Israeli strikes on Iran, saying the situation must be “returned to the path of political and diplomatic settlement”.

The foreign ministry said the international community should swiftly deliver an objective assessment of what it called irresponsible actions that risk further destabilising the region.

Moscow added that it remains ready, as before, to assist in efforts to find peaceful solutions based on international law, mutual respect and a balance of interests.

11.16am

February 28

## EU urges restraint

Ursula von der Leyen, the president of the European Commission, has urged restraint and called on parties to engage in regional diplomacy.

In a post on social media, Von der Leyen said the developments in Iran were “greatly concerning”.

She said: “We reaffirm our steadfast commitment to safeguarding regional security and stability. Ensuring nuclear safety and preventing any actions that could further escalate tensions or undermine the global non-proliferation regime is of critical importance.

“In close co-ordination with EU member states, we will take all necessary steps to ensure that EU citizens in the region can count on our full support. We call on all parties to exercise maximum restraint, to protect civilians, and to fully respect international law.”

11.12am

February 28

## Read Trump’s speech in full

The US president addressed the world after co-ordinated American and Israeli strikes against the Iranian regime.

Trump accused Tehran of “waging an unending campaign of bloodshed and mass murder” and said it could “never have a nuclear weapon”.

He then told the Iranian people that “the hour of your freedom is at hand”, adding: “When we are finished, take over your government. This will be, probably, your only chance for generations.”

• Trump’s speech on Iran attack in full

11.04am

February 28

## BA cancels flights to Tel Aviv and Bahrain

British Airways said it had cancelled flights to Tel Aviv and Bahrain until March 3 after missile strikes in the region. At least one overnight BA flight from Heathrow to Doha has also turned around and is returning to London.

A spokesperson for British Airways said: “We are closely monitoring the situation and have taken the operational decision to cancel our flights to Tel Aviv and Bahrain up to and including March 3 and have cancelled today’s service to Amman. Safety is always our top priority, and we’re contacting our customers to advise them of their travel options.”

11.03am

February 28

## Who is Iran’s supreme leader?

IRANIAN LEADER’S OFFICE/EPA

Tehran’s bitter winter had penetrated the dungeon and left the frail inmate shivering with cold. Houshang Asadi, a communist dissident, took pity on his cellmate and gave him his sweater. The man refused it at first before tearfully accepting the gift. “Houshang,” the man said, “when Islam will come to power, not a single tear will be shed.”

That memory of Ali Khamenei in 1975 as an idealist who suffered for his opposition to the Shah stayed with Asadi for decades to come. Years later, in 2003, Khamenei, now the undisputed dictator of Iran who threw young men and women into those same dungeons, repaid Asadi’s kindness by forcing him into exile.

• Read in full: Who is Ayatollah Ali Khamenei?

10.40am

February 28

## All US bases legitimate targets, Iran warns

The Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps has said that all US bases, resources and interests throughout the region are considered legitimate targets for the Iranian army after the US-Israeli strikes.

It said Tehran’s retaliation would continue “relentlessly until the enemy is defeated”.

A senior US official has told Axios that there are no US casualties as of now.

10.37am

February 28

## One killed as UAE and Jordan intercept Iranian missiles

The defence ministry of the United Arab Emirates said it had intercepted several Iranian ballistic missiles and that a person in Abu Dhabi, the capital, had died as a result of falling debris.

“The UAE reserves its full right to respond to this escalation and to take all necessary measures to protect its territory, citizens and residents,” the statement said.

Meanwhile, the Jordanian state-run news agency reported that the country’s military had intercepted two ballistic missiles that entered its airspace.

10.34am

February 28

## What is the US navy’s Fifth Fleet?

The fleet, based in Bahrain, was targeted by a missile attack this morning. Photos showed a large plume of black smoke rising from the military installation where the fleet has its headquarters. At least 4,500 US military and civilian staff work at the port and base in Bahrain.

Manama, Bahrain, where the US navy’s Fifth Fleet is based

ANADOLU/GETTY IMAGES

It is responsible for securing the shipping lanes around the oil-rich Middle East, including the Persian Gulf, the Red Sea and parts of the Indian Ocean. One of the major routes is the Strait of Hormuz, between Iran and Oman.

Iran has repeatedly threatened to close the Strait of Hormuz if it is attacked. The extent of the damage to the Fifth Fleet’s headquarters was not immediately clear.

10.30am

February 28

## Supreme leader and president were targets, says Israeli official

The United States and Israel targeted Ali Khamenei, Iran’s supreme leader, and President Pezeshkian with their attacks on Saturday but the results of the strikes were unclear, an Israeli official said.

The official did not provide additional details. Iran has declined to comment on whether the supreme leader and the president were targeted but both have been taken out of Tehran, it was earlier confirmed.

10.24am

February 28

## Will Iran strike the Strait of Hormuz?

From the Bandar Abbas docks where they once built a replica US aircraft carrier only to destroy it, the Iranian regime’s military planners may have been casting their eyes over the Strait of Hormuz in recent days with some measure of satisfaction.

In a demonstration of military strength that could prove both key to the regime’s survival and its ultimate suicide, earlier this month the navy briefly closed the 24-mile strait through which a quarter of the world’s oil and a third of its liquefied natural gas travels.

After a handful of drills, tankers slowly chugged through the strait again, but the message to President Trump was clear: bomb Iran at your economic peril.

• Read in full: Now Trump has struck, is Iran ready to unleash hell on Hormuz?

10.21am

February 28

## Israelis take cover

People take cover in Jerusalem as Iran launches retaliatory missiles towards Israel

MOSTAFA ALKHAROUF/ANADOLU VIA GETTY IMAGES

Under the bridge of a highway in Latun

AMIR COHEN/REUTERS

At an underground metro station in Tel Aviv

JACK GUEZ/AFP/GETTY IMAGES

10.16am

February 28

## Israel targeted ‘essential personnel’

An Israeli military official said they had targeted Iranian “essential personnel” that are “part of the plan to destroy Israel”, Reuters reports.

The Israeli military was still determining the success of initial strikes on Iran, an official told the agency.

Meanwhile, an Iranian military official declined to comment on whether the country’s supreme leader or the president had been targeted in the strikes.

10.10am

February 28

## Smoke rises from US base in Bahrain

REUTERS/STRINGER

Images posted on social media, which has been geo-located by The Sunday Times, appears to show a large plume of smoke after a missile strike against a US military installation in Bahrain.

The Bahraini government confirmed that strikes had been launched against the base but did not offer any additional information.

Bahrain is home to the headquarters of US Naval Forces Central Command and the US Fifth Fleet. Iran has continued to launch retaliatory strikes against a number of US military bases in the region, including Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the UAE and Qatar.

9.57am

February 28

## Regime urges calm

Iran’s supreme national council has asked Iranians to travel to cities other than Tehran where possible to remain safe, but urged them to remain calm.

State media said there was no concern about the supply of essential goods and said people should avoid crowding in shopping centres, which could pose a risk to them.

A separate release said schools and universities in Iran would be closed until further notice, while banks would continue to provide services.

9.53am

February 28

## Starmer to chair Cobra

Sir Keir Starmer, the prime minister, will chair a ministerial meeting of Cobra this morning. It is understood the UK was not involved in the strikes against Iran this morning.

A spokesman for the British government said the situation must not escalate into a wider regional conflict. He said: “Iran must never be allowed to develop a nuclear weapon and that is why we have continually supported efforts to reach a negotiated solution. Our immediate priority is the safety of UK nationals in the region and we will provide them with consular assistance, available 24/7.

“As part of our longstanding commitments to the security of our allies in the Middle East, we have a range of defensive capabilities in the region, which we have recently bolstered. We stand ready to protect our interests.”

This year the UK deployed radar systems, counter-drone systems, F-35 jets and ground-based air defences to its bases in the Middle East.

9.36am

February 28

## Iran denounces ‘criminal’ strikes

Iran’s ministry of foreign affairs has released a statement calling the American and Israeli strikes “criminal military aggression” and accused the two countries of violating the United Nations charter.

The statement, posted on social media, said the US and Israel attacked during the holy month of Ramadan and called on the UN and its security council to take “immediate action to confront the violation of international peace and security”.

It said the renewed military aggression “is being committed in a situation where Iran and the United States were in the middle of a diplomatic process”.

“All member states of the United Nations … are expected to firmly condemn this act of aggression and take urgent and collective action to confront it”, the statement said.

9.29am

February 28

## Russia reacts

Dmitry Medvedev, deputy chairman of Russia‘s Security Council, chided President Trump on Saturday for the attack on Iran and questioned Washington’s staying power given the relatively short history of the United States compared with that of Persia’s civilisation.

“The peacemaker once again showed his face,” Medvedev, a former Russian president, said. “All negotiations with Iran are a cover operation. No one doubted it. No one really wanted to negotiate anything.”

“The question is who has more patience to wait for the inglorious end of their enemy. The USA is only 249 years old. The Persian Empire was founded more than 2,500 years ago. Let’s see in 100 years”

9.20am

February 28

## Iran ‘strikes US base in Bahrain’

Iran has begun launching retaliatory strikes against numerous US military installations across the Middle East.

Iranian state media has confirmed it targeted an American base in Bahrain with missiles. Tasnim, a semi-official news agency, confirmed the launches on social media. The island nation in the Persian Gulf is home to the headquarters of US Naval Forces Central Command and the Fifth Fleet. Air raid sirens were previously heard blaring there this morning and explosions were reported on social media.

There are also reports that Qatar has intercepted two Iranian missiles over its airspace. The US embassy in Qatar earlier implemented a shelter-in-place protocol for all personnel and has recommended US citizens in the region do the same until further notice.

The United Arab Emirates has also temporarily closed its airspace.

Sirens have also been activated in Kuwait.

9.14am

February 28

## Norway fears wider Middle East conflict

The Norwegian foreign minister, Espen Barth Eide, said he was deeply worried that a new, extensive war was starting in the Middle East after the Israel-US strikes on Iran.

“The attack is described by Israel as a preventive strike, but it is not in line with international law. Preventive attacks require an immediately imminent threat,” he said in a statement to Reuters. He also urged restraint and not to abandon the search for diplomatic solutions.

9.11am

February 28

## US strike named ‘Operation Epic Fury’

The Pentagon has said its combat operations were named “Operation Epic Fury”.

The title was announced via a post on social media, and formalises the campaign as a major US military operation. Previous strikes on Iran last June were codenamed “Operation Midnight Hammer”.

Israel has confirmed its own codename for the attack on Iran as “Operation Lion’s Roar”.

9.09am

February 28

## What is Trump’s goal?

Joint US and Israeli attacks on Iran have begun. Now the question is what war aims have been set by President Trump and whether the Iranians can be compelled to accept them (writes Mark Urban).

A last-minute Iranian concession on nuclear enrichment, revealed yesterday by Omani mediators, failed to avert the onslaught. So now it is a case of whether the US and Israel compel them to go further, accepting further curbs on that programme and their missile arsenal, or set an altogether more ambitious objective of toppling the Iranian regime of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.

Messages from Trump, who told the Iranians in the last couple of hours “your hour of freedom is at hand”, and Israel’s Mossad intelligence agency, whose Persian social media channel urged people there to “return Iran to its glory days”, suggest this may be the case. But it’s also possible that such messages are an attempt to intimidate Iran’s leadership into rapid concessions in order to save itself.

9.06am

February 28

## Houthis ‘to resume strikes in support of Iran’

The Iranian-backed Houthis in Yemen have decided to resume missile and drone strikes on shipping routes and on Israel in support of Iran, according to the Associated Press.

The news agency said it had spoken to two senior Houthi officials who confirmed the rebel group’s first attack could come as soon as “tonight”. Houthi militia had previously ceased their attacks after the ceasefire last October that halted major fighting in Gaza.

9.03am

February 28

## Strikes reported across Iran

Iran’s news agencies are reporting strikes throughout the country, in addition to the primary strikes on Iran.

Fars news agency has said that explosions have been heard in Isfahan, in central Iran, and Karaj, in the north. Mehr news agency said areas in Tehran, Isfahan, Kermanshah, Qom and Alborz had also been targeted.

The spokesperson for the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation announced that Iran’s airspace has been closed until further notice.

8.59am

February 28

## Flights suspended

Wizz Air is suspending all flights to and from Israel, Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Amman with immediate effect until March 7, the airline said on Saturday.

“The airline is closely monitoring developments and remains in ongoing contact with local and international authorities, aviation safety agencies, security authorities, and relevant governmental bodies,” it said in a statement.

KLM has brought forward the suspension of its AmsterdamTel Aviv service, cancelling the flight scheduled for Saturday after strikes in Iran, a spokesperson said. The airline, the Dutch arm of Air France-KLM, had announced 