Middle East oil becomes most expensive in the world as war cuts supply | Reuters

Skip to main content

Exclusive news, data and analytics for financial market professionalsLearn more aboutRefinitiv

3D-printed oil pump jacks and a United Arab Emirates (UAE) flag appear in this illustration taken March 2, 2026. REUTERS/Dado Ruvic/Illustration Purchase Licensing Rights, opens new tab

- Summary
- Companies

- Platts Dubai crude price hit record $157.66/bbl, surpass Brent's 2008 high
- Dubai's premium jumps to $60.82/bbl; Oman's premium near $56
- Record premiums stall trade, prices distorted, traders say

SINGAPORE/NEW DELHI, March 16 (Reuters) - (This March 16 story has been corrected to drop a reference to Asia for Middle East crude exports in paragraph 7)

Middle East crude oil benchmarks soared to all-time highs, becoming the most expensive in ŌĆīthe world, even as trade slumps due to the war in Iran, with some traders arguing that the benchmarks have lost relevance due to supply disruption.

Sign up here.

The surge in the benchmarks, used to price millions of barrels of Middle Eastern crude bound for Asia, is pushing up costs for Asian refiners, forcing them to seek ŌĆŗalternatives or reduce output further in coming months.

Cash Dubai was assessed at a record $157.66 per barrel on Tuesday for May-loading ŌĆŗcargoes, S&P Global Platts said, surpassing Brent futures' all-time high of $147.50 in 2008.

That put Dubai's premium to swaps ŌüĀat $60.82 a barrel on Monday versus an average of 90 cents in February, data from Reuters showed.

Similarly, Oman crude futures hit a ŌĆŗrecord high of $152.58 per barrel, setting their premium to Dubai swaps at $55.74 a barrel compared to just 75 cents on average in February.

Dubai ŌĆŗprices are distorted given their wide price gap with Murban futures which settled at $114.03 a barrel on Tuesday, three trade sources said.

Middle East crude exports fell to 11.665 million barrels per day (bpd) in March from nearly 19 million bpd in February and down about 32% versus March 2025 levels, as the war halts ŌüĀshipping through the Strait of Hormuz, data from analytics firm Kpler showed.

Several Asian refiners have reduced operating rates.

REDUCED SUPPLY

Some refining sources blamed the price ŌüĀspike on reduced supply available for delivery during the Platts Market on Close process, after the agency dropped three crude grades that transit via the ŌĆīstrait.

One of ŌüĀthe sources said the pricing was unfair because the remaining grades - Oman and Murban - are not representative of the benchmark used to price Middle Eastern and also some Russian barrels.

Another refining source said May-loading Middle East crude trade has stalled as the Dubai and Oman benchmarks are broken. The sources declined to be named as they spoke on the condition of anonymity.

"Platts Dubai continues to reflect the value of Middle ŌĆŗEastern sour crude trading in ŌĆŗthe spot market," an S&P Global ŌüĀEnergy spokesperson said in an email, adding that activity during the Platts MOC has been robust this month, with multiple cargoes delivered.

However, traders said TotalEnergies (TTEF.PA), opens new tab has been the main buyer receiving cargoes in the ŌüĀPlatts window. The French major snapped up 42 Oman and Murban crude cargoes, or 21 million barrels, ŌüĀthis month, trade ŌüĀdata showed. TotalEnergies declined to comment.

Platts said on Monday it is seeking immediate feedback on the deliverability of Middle East crude and Platts Dubai crude benchmark methodology.

## AFRICA, AMERICAS FOR ALTERNATIVE SUPPLY

Spot premiums for crude from the Americas and Africa have risen as Asian refiners scramble for supply.

Two traders said ŌüĀpremiums for ŌüĀBrazilian spot crude hit records of $12-$15 a barrel to dated Brent. Premiums for April-loading ŌüĀWest African crude on a free-on-board basis were up about $1 a barrel from a month ago, with most cargoes sold, one of the traders said.

Reporting by Florence Tan and ŌüĀSiyi Liu in Singapore, Nidhi Verma in New Delhi; Additional reporting by Chen Aizhu; editing by Harikrishnan Nair, Stephen Coates and Jason Neely