Sen. Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) said he is pleased that President Trump is removing Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Kristi Noem from her post.

“Well, I’m glad he moved on,” Tillis told host Jake Tapper on CNN’s “State of the Union.”“Secretary Noem may have been effective as the governor in South Dakota, but it’s very clear that her experience didn’t scale to something the size and scope of Homeland Security.”

“So I’m glad the president made the decision,” he added.

Trump said Thursday that Noem will depart DHS on Mar. 31, with the president nominating Sen. Markwayne Mullin (R-Okla.) as her replacement. Noem will transition to the role of special envoy for “The Shield of the Americas,” a new partnership among Western Hemisphere nations to address drug trafficking.

Tillis has repeatedly criticized Noem in recent months, particularly after federal immigration officers fatally shot U.S. citizens Renee Good and Alex Pretti in Minneapolis this past January. Noem asserted that Good and Pretti acted unlawfully, but footage of the incidents contradicted those claims.

The North Carolina Republican has also slammed the outgoing DHS chief for holding out disaster relief funding for his state, which is roughly 18 months removed from the deadly Hurricane Helene.

“What we’ve seen is a disaster under your leadership, Ms. Noem, a disaster,” Tillis told Noem during a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing earlier this week.

Conversely, Tillis praised Mullin as “one of the most independent people I have had the privilege of working with” in the upper chamber and expressed optimism that the Oklahoma senator will focus on deporting “the most dangerous people.”

White House deputy chief of staff Stephen Miller pushed for DHS to boost immigration arrests last year, a strategy that Tillis has pushed back on. On Sunday, he called on Mullin to tell Miller “to stay in his lanes” upon taking over the department.

“I don’t think Markwayne goes to the podium and repeats something that Stephen Miller says,” the GOP senator remarked. “I think Stephen Miller’s demonstrated he too is out of his depth. And I think Markwayne will learn from that.”

Donald Trump Jake Tapper Kristi Noem Markwayne Mullin Stephen Miller Thom Tillis

---

Copyright 2026 Nexstar Media Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.