Gold prices drifted lower on Tuesday, weighed by ​a stronger dollar and dimming prospects for rate cuts as inflation ‌concerns intensified amid fears of a potentially prolonged Middle East conflict.

Spot gold was down 3.6% at $5,137.00 an ounce. Prices hit an over four-week high in the previous session.

U.S. ​gold futures settled 3.5% lower at $5,123.70.

"The move lower in gold appears to be ​driven by a flight to liquidity - a flight to cash. We ⁠have a strong dollar and bond yields trading higher," said Bob Haberkorn, senior market ​strategist at RJO Futures.

The U.S. dollar, a competing safe-haven asset, posted sharp gains, making ​dollar‑priced bullion less affordable for holders of other currencies, while U.S. Treasury yields rose for a second consecutive session.

"However, this dip in prices is likely to be short‑lived, and flight to safety ​flows driven by geopolitical risk should support higher gold and silver prices," Haberkorn ​added.

On the geopolitical front, the Iran conflict entered its fourth day as explosions rocked Tehran and Beirut, ‌while a ⁠senior Iranian Revolutionary Guards official said on Monday the Strait of Hormuz had been closed. Crude oil benchmarks jumped over 8% on Tuesday in response.

Damage to energy infrastructure and stalled tanker traffic through Hormuz have lifted the risk of sustained strength in ​oil, gas and refined ​products, stoking inflation ⁠fears and pushing back rate-cut expectations, leaving gold with little support, said Fawad Razaqzada, market analyst at City Index and FOREX.com.

Despite ​being considered a hedge against inflation and turmoil, gold is ​typically preferred ⁠in low-rate environments, as it yields no interest.

Spot gold has gained 19% this year, supported by global turmoil, following a 64% surge in 2025. Meanwhile, silver was up over 16% this year.

Spot ⁠silver fell 6.6% ​to $83.50 an ounce after climbing to a more than ​four-week high on Monday.

Elsewhere, platinum lost 8.4% to $2,108.51 and palladium shed 5.6% to $1,667.41.