Explosions heard across Middle East as Iran retaliates to U.S. strikes

Explosions were heard across the Middle East on Saturday after the U.S. and Israel launched a “broad & joint operation” in Iran, according to the Israel Defense Forces. Iran retaliated with strikes on Israeli and U.S. bases across the Gulf.

Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, Jordan and the United Arab Emirates — each home to a U.S. base — all confirmed they had intercepted missiles from Iran.

In the UAE, “the Ministry of Defense announced that the country was subjected today to a blatant attack by Iranian ballistic missiles, which was dealt with by the UAE air defenses with high efficiency and a number of missiles were successfully intercepted.”

CNBC’s team in the UAE confirmed hearing several loud explosions in both the UAE’s capital, Abu Dhabi, and Dubai.

Qatar’s Ministry of Defense issued a statement saying: “State of Qatar expresses its strong condemnation of the targeting of Qatari territory with Iranian ballistic missiles, considering it a flagrant violation of its national sovereignty, a direct infringement on its security and territorial integrity, and an unacceptable escalation that threatens the security and stability of the region.”

Bahrain, home to U.S. Central Command, confirmed via its news agency, “The services center affiliated with the Fifth Fleet was subjected to a missile attack.”

Saudi Arabia released a statement condemning and denouncing Iran’s attacks and “flagrant violation of the sovereignty of the UAE, Bahrain, Qatar, Kuwait, and Jordan.” The Kingdom also confirmed its “readiness to place all its capabilities at their disposal in support of any measures they may undertake.”

Israel, which took part in the joint operation against Iran with the United States, said earlier on X through its Israeli Defense Forces account that an “additional barrage of missiles was launched toward Israel. The Aerial Defense Array is currently identifying and intercepting threats.” Israel confirmed air sirens continued throughout Saturday as missiles were launched from Iran.

U.S. embassies across the region have instructed staff and Americans in countries to shelter-in-place (i.e., take cover) until further notice.

U.S. President Donald Trump said on Saturday in a statement on Truth Social, “The United States military began major combat operations in Iran. Our objective is to defend the American people by eliminating imminent threats from the Iranian regime, a vicious group of very hard, terrible people.”

The UAE confirmed a temporary closure of its airspace as an “exceptional precautionary measure,” and flights have already been diverted around the major aviation hub of Dubai.

According to Dubai’s main long-haul carrier Emirates, “Regional airspace closures have caused disruption to several Emirates flights.”

Air Arabia, another UAE carrier based out of Sharjah told CNBC that “due to the evolving situation and airspace closures, our flights to Iran, Iraq and other parts of the region on 28 February have been cancelled. Several other flights may experience delays or rerouting as a result.”

Qatar Airways also confirmed a “temporary suspension of its flights to, and from, Doha due to the closure of Qatari airspace.”