# Day 8 of Middle East conflict — Trump signals plans to escalate attacks, Iran vows to continue retaliatory strikes

Updated 12:26 AM EST, Sun March 8, 2026

Video of a huge fire that took place on Saturday has been circulating on social media. It has been geolocated by CNN in the vicinity of a petrol storage facility in northeastern Tehran. Vahid Online/X

• Mixed signals: There have been conflicting statements from top Iranian officials underscoring possible rifts within the leadership. Iran’s top security official said President Donald Trump “must pay the price” for the war. Meanwhile Iran’s president apologized for strikes on Gulf states, only to backtrack shortly after following criticism from other Iranian leaders.

• Strikes continue: At least four people were killed in central Beirut after a strike hit a hotel building. Countries across the Gulf reported further aerial attacks and interceptions.

• Escalating conflict: Trump signaled that attacks on Iran will intensify this weekend. A series of major explosions rocked Tehran late Saturday as Israel launched new strikes.

• China’s response: Foreign Minister Wang Yi called for an end to the conflict, warning that the “flames of war” risk spreading. China’s growing concern about the war comes as leader Xi Jinping is preparing to host Trump in Beijing.

Read more

The Milad Tower is seen against a lit up sky following airstrikes in Tehran on Saturday.

Atta Kenare/AFP/Getty Images

CNN’s team in Tehran heard bomb blasts late Saturday local time as the Israel Defense Forces announced a new “wave of strikes” in the city.

The Iranian state-affiliated Fars News Agency said US and Israeli bombing targeted an oil refinery in southern Tehran. CNN crews heard what sounded like a wave of airstrikes and major explosions in the Iranian capital, with thuds in the east, south and northwest of the city.

CNN reports from Iran with the permission of the Iranian government.

Here’s what else you should know:

• Blasts around the region: Witnesses heard more explosions in Bahrain, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates Saturday. Debris from an intercepted projectile over Dubai killed a driver, the government media office said in a post to X. Elsewhere in the city, CNN teams were among those evacuated when debris from a separate interception damaged a high-rise building in the busy Marina area.

• Bombs sale: The Trump administration declared an emergency and bypassed Congress to immediately sell 12,000 bombs to Israel as part of the ongoing military operations against Iran.

• Iran’s next leader: A new Iranian supreme leader could be chosen within the next 24 hours, a member of the country’s Assembly of Experts told Fars.

• Water supply concerns: Iran’s Foreign Minister Abbas Aragchi said a US attack on a desalination plant— which turns sea water into drinking water — off the southern coast of Oman impacted the water supply in 30 villages.

• Kuwait cuts oil production: The Gulf nation has made precautionary reductions in crude oil production, according to the Kuwait Petroleum Corporation. It marks another disruption to the global energy industry as US gas prices soar.

• Fatal strike in Iraq: An unidentified airstrike killed a member of Iraq’s Popular Mobilization Forces — a predominantly Shiite, Iranian-backed paramilitary force — and wounded three others, according to the country’s Joint Operations Command.

CNN’s Frederik Pleitgen, Claudia Otto, Max Saltman, Jennifer Hansler, Tim Lister, Adam Pourahmadi, Catherine Nicolls, Michelle Velez and Christian Edwards contributed to this report.

Israel will continue to strike Iran “with all our might,” Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Saturday.

In a recorded statement, Netanyahu claimed Israel and the US have achieved “almost complete control” over the skies of Iran and that there are “many more targets and surprises prepared.”

Shortly before his statement was released, Israel announced a new wave of strikes on Tehran.

Netanyahu directly threatened members of Iran’s elite Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, saying, “You are in the crosshairs.”

The prime minister said the military operation with the US will “create the conditions that will allow the Iranian people to take their fate into their own hands.” He urged Iranians to rise up.

Against the backdrop of intensified Israeli strikes against Hezbollah targets in Lebanon, Netanyahu called on the Lebanese government to adhere to its commitment under the November 2024 ceasefire agreement and disarm Hezbollah.

President Donald Trump disembarks from Air Force One upon arrival at Dover Air Force Base in Delaware.

Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images

The six American service members who lost their lives in an Iranian drone strike in Kuwait will be brought home during a dignified transfer at Dover Air Force Base in Delaware.

President Donald Trump, Vice President JD Vance, second lady Usha Vance, first lady Melania Trump and Cabinet officials will be in attendance.

“I will be going to Dover Air Force Base tomorrow, with the First Lady and Members of my Cabinet, to pay our Highest Respect to our Great Warriors, who are returning home for the last time,” Trump wrote on Truth Social yesterday. “GOD BLESS THEM ALL!” he added.

The service members being honored are Maj. Jeffery O’Brien, Capt. Cody Khork, Chief Warrant Officer 3 Robert Marzan, Sgt. 1st Class Nicole Amor, Sgt. 1st Class Noah Tietjens and Sgt. Declan Coady. All were assigned to the 103rd Sustainment Command, an Army Reserve unit out of Iowa.

Four of them grew close bonds while they previously served in the same unit during 2019 in Kuwait, retired US Army Col. Josef Sujet, then chief of staff of the 103rd Sustainment Command, told CNN.

Residents filling up Saturday at an Arco gas station in Atlanta’s upscale Buckhead neighborhood expressed concern about both the war with Iran and the impact it’s having on gas prices.

Tracy Scott, a schoolteacher who said she also drives Uber to make ends meet, said she feels the Trump administration made the decision to go to war without considering the impact it may have on lower- and middle-class people.

The 47-year-old also said she does not support the war and questioned why President Donald Trump chose to attack Iran. “I feel like our president has become a bully and is making us more of a target than trying to help the world,” Scott said.

Tamira Moncur, an Atlanta resident who is a part-time teacher and Lyft driver, called the spike in gas prices “startling.” She told CNN that a coworker had warned her earlier in the week to fill up before prices climbed further.

A man who declined to provide his name said that, while he’s concerned about rising gas prices and inflation, he fully supports Trump’s decision to attack Iran, even if it means paying more at the pump. “We must support our troops,” he said.

After a night of punishing airstrikes in Tehran, CNN’s Frederik Pleitgen has been meeting shopkeepers and residents who say they fear for their safety, but have little choice but to continue living as normally as possible:

A resident of the central Iranian city of Esfahan told CNN they’ve witnessed “horrible” bombing Saturday night local time.

“We heard a fighter jet sound for a minute, then very near fighter jet sound and got away from the windows,” they continued. “Just saw the flash (of) light. It was a very powerful explosion.”

Last night, the Israeli military said it struck Esfahan, which houses critical Iranian nuclear facilities. Residents there and in Tehran told CNN afterward that they had suffered through a night of intense bombardment.

Buildings around Dubai’s Marina were evacuated Saturday after debris from projectile interceptions damaged the facade of a high-rise building in the Emirati city. Among the evacuees were CNN staff.

In a statement on social media, Dubai’s Media Office said no one was injured in the incident.

The Marina is close to many tourist attractions and city institutions, including the American University of Dubai and the Dubai Marina Mall.

As the sound of interceptions reverberated through the city and evacuations began, residents of Dubai and Abu Dhabi received warnings of incoming missiles on their cell phones.

The strikes came shortly after the president of the United Arab Emirates, Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, made extremely rare public comments describing Iran as “the enemy.”

“The UAE is beautiful, the UAE is a model to be followed, but I tell you, do not be deceived by that,” he warned Tehran while visiting a hospital, which is treating civilians injured in the strikes. “The UAE’s hand can reach and is strong, its flesh is bitter, and we are not easy prey.”

Iran is experiencing a near total internet blackout— and has been for more than a week.

An Iranian flag is placed amidst rubble and debris next to a destroyed residential building near Ferdowsi square in Tehran on March 3.

Atta Kenare/AFP/Getty Images

Even as they endure days of joint US-Israeli strikes, some Iranians remain most fearful of the country’s regime surviving this war.

“The scariest thing for people is the continuation of the Islamic Republic,” a Tehran resident told CNN in a voice note. “The idea of sharing oxygen with these people, that is scariest.”

Another resident in Tehran described the city as “empty,” after days of sustained bombardment.

“A lot of people have left Tehran, and a lot of people haven’t for their own reasons,” the woman said by text message. “There are no cars out, no-one on the streets.”

For context: The regime brutally suppressed anti-government protests earlier this year, killing thousands in a matter of days. For some Iranians, the war has stirred hope that the regime, which swept to power in the 1979 Islamic Revolution, might fall.

For pro-regime supporters, it has only deepened anti-American and anti-Israeli sentiment, while others, who longed for regime change but never imagined it would come through foreign intervention, remain torn.

There were more blasts heard in Bahrain, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates Saturday evening local time, despite a suggestion earlier in the day from Iran’s president that strikes across the Gulf would cease.

There was a series of loud explosions in Bahrain, according to witnesses. It was not immediately clear whether they were caused by impacts or interceptions.

Iran’s official Fars news agency claimed there were “massive explosions at US bases in Bahrain.” The Bahraini Ministry of the Interior later said in a post on social media that “Iranian aggression caused a fire and material damage to a house and several surrounding buildings in Manama.”

Meanwhile, CNN staff in Qatar reported a series of loud bangs, and teams in Abu Dhabi, the UAE’s capital, reported at least three loud blasts.

The UAE’s National Security Council posted on X that, “Air defense systems are currently responding to a missile threat,” advising people to “remain in a safe location.”

Earlier Saturday, Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian apologized to Arab Gulf nations for the impact of Iranian drone and missile attacks targeting US bases and said Iran would stop striking its neighbors unless it came under attack.

Pezeshkian’s office later issued an “explanation” that his message was clear: “if regional countries do not cooperate in America’s attack on us, we will not attack them.”

The Trump administration has declared an emergency and bypassed Congress to immediately sell 12,000 bombs to Israel amid ongoing military operations against Iran.

According to a notice from the US State Department, Israel requested to buy “twelve thousand (12,000) BLU-110A/B general purpose, 1,000-pound bomb bodies,” valued at more than $151 million.

Secretary of State Marco Rubio “has determined and provided detailed justification that an emergency exists that requires the immediate sale to the Government of Israel of the above defense articles and defense services is in the national security interests of the United States, thereby waiving the Congressional review requirements,” the notice said.

The emergency declaration and expedited sale come as Israel and the United States continue their war against Iran. President Donald Trump on Saturday previewed a heavy new assault, saying, “Today Iran will be hit very hard!”

“Under serious consideration for complete destruction and certain death, because of Iran’s bad behavior, are areas and groups of people that were not considered for targeting up until this moment in time,” he wrote on Truth Social Saturday morning.

Iran's Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi during a session of the United Nations Conference in Geneva, on February 17.

Valentin Flauraud/AFP/Getty Images

Iran’s Foreign Minister Abbas Aragchi on Saturday accused the United States of attacking a desalination plant on Qeshm Island, off the southern coast of Oman, which he claimed had impacted water supply in 30 villages.

CNN has not seen any evidence of the alleged US attack, and has asked US Central Command for comment on Aragchi’s allegation.

Still, the claim has drawn attention to what may be the most important piece of infrastructure in the region. The Middle East is home to more than a quarter of the world’s desalination plants, which allow the desertic region to turn sea water into drinking water.

Since the outbreak of war a week ago, analysts have feared that an increasingly desperate Iran – shorn of good military options – could resort to targeting these plants in order to inflict costs on US allies in the Gulf.

Although CNN has not seen evidence of a US strike on a desalination plant on Qeshm Island, Aragchi’s accusation has raised the possibility that this infrastructure could become targets.

A new Iranian supreme leader could be chosen within the next 24 hours, a member of the country’s Assembly of Experts has said, according to Iran’s state-affiliated Fars News Agency.

Ayatollah Mozaffari said that the 88 senior clerics that make up the Assembly of Experts are “impatiently waiting” for the conditions to hold a session where the next leader of Iran will be picked, Fars reported.

No selection for the next supreme leader has yet taken place, he continued, calling for the public not to speculate or spread rumors about this, Fars reported.

More explosions have rocked cities across the Middle East on Saturday evening local time.

The fresh blasts in Bahrain, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates came hours after Iran’s president suggested strikes in neighboring Gulf states would cease — though he added that Iran reserved the right to strike areas where US attacks originated.

Catch up on the latest:

- Evacuation flights: The US has completed over a dozen charter flights to evacuate thousands of Americans from the Middle East, a top State Department official said Saturday.
- Spiking gas prices: US gas prices shot up another 9 cents, according to AAA, taking the average price to $3.41 a gallon, the highest since August 2024.
- Israeli raid: Lebanese authorities say dozens of people were killed when Israeli commandos raided a border region in search of the remains of a long-missing airman. Residents in the Nabi Chit village endured a “night of hell,” one told Reuters.
- Fallen US troops: Later Saturday, Trump will be in Delaware to observe the dignified transfer of the remains of six service members killed in Kuwait. Speaking at a summit this morning, the president said he intends to keep US deaths in the Iran war “to a minimum.”
- Rising death toll: Since last Saturday, at least 1,172 civilians have been killed in Iran, according to the US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency. And at least 294 people have been killed in Lebanon since Israel began strikes on the country on Monday, the Lebanese health ministry said.
- More from Tehran: After President Masoud Pezeshkian’s apology to Arab Gulf nations for recent strikes, Iran issued an additional statement pledging a continued firm response to any attacks from US military bases in the region. A senior Iranian official told CNN that Tehran is looking for new assets to strike in response to US President Donald Trump’s threat to escalate his military campaign.

CNN’s Tal Shalev, Charbel Mallo, Frederik Pleitgen, Tamar Michaelis, Catherine Nicholls, Leila Gharagozlou, Christian Edwards, Adam Pourahmadi, Issy Ronald, Charbel Mallo and Catherine Nicholls, Kit Maher, James Frater and Tim Lister contributed reporting.

United Arab Emirates President Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan attends a meeting in Rome, in February 2025.

Antonio Masiello/Getty Images

United Arab Emirates President Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan issued a thinly veiled threat to Iran, warning that his country is “not easy prey” and calling Tehran “the enemy” in a shift from the way the UAE traditionally frames its relationship with its Gulf neighbor.

In extremely rare public comments, the president, known as MBZ, said he “wanted to send a message to the enemy of the UAE.”

“The UAE is beautiful, the UAE is a model to be followed, but I tell you, do not be deceived by that,” he warned Tehran while visiting a hospital, which is treating civilians injured in the strikes. “The UAE’s hand can reach and is strong, its flesh is bitter, and we are not easy prey.”

MBZ’s comments, his first since this war began, were aired shortly after Emirati air defense systems responded to a missile threat despite Iran’s president suggesting earlier today that strikes across the Gulf would halt.

“We are carrying out our duty toward our country, our people, and those who live among us. May God protect the UAE, protect its people and everyone in it, and bless it with security and safety,” MBZ added. “I promise you that what is coming will show us stronger.”

Gas prices shot up another 9 cents a gallon in the latest reading from AAA, taking the average price to $3.41 a gallon, the highest since August 2024.

The average price has now climbed 43 cents in just the last week, the largest weekly increase since early March 2022, soon after oil-rich Russia was hit with widespread sanctions after its invasion of Ukraine.

This latest rise is a reaction to the war in Iran and the virtual closure of the Strait of Hormuz, a crucial channel through which 20% of the world’s oil passes, as well Iran’s retaliatory attacks on the oil facilities of its neighbors — the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil exporter.

Most of the price increase has come in the last five days, with each day seeing a jump of 5 cents or more. The increase of 11.2 cents on Tuesday was the largest one-day hike since Hurricane Katrina in 2005.

Diesel prices are rising even faster. The average price of diesel rose 18 cents to $4.51 a gallon in Saturday’s reading, taking it up 75 cents in just the last week.

And more prices hikes could be on the way. The price of a barrel of West Texas Intermediate (WTI), the benchmark for US crude, closed up 12.2% to $90.90 a barrel on Friday, the largest one-day increase since May 2020 during Covid. That left that key oil price up 36% for the week, the largest weekly increase in the futures contract since at least 1983.

Iranians have had little to no access to the internet for more than a week now, as the country faces a near total blackout during the ongoing conflict with Israel and the United States.

Mourners react during the funeral a two-year-old child who was killed in a strike in Tehran, Iran on Saturday.

Majid Asgaripour/West Asia News Agency/Reuters

The number of civilians killed in Iran following US and Israeli strikes in the country since last Saturday climbed to 1,172 as of 5 p.m. ET Friday, according to the US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRANA).

Of those killed, at least 194 are children, HRANA reported. In addition to the civilian fatalities, another 176 members of the military have also been killed, the rights group said.

Some facilities protected under international humanitarian law were damaged by strikes between Thursday and Friday evening ET, HRANA said, including a Red Crescent facility, three residential units in Tehran and a National Iranian Oil Company facility.

The death toll for this latest conflict is nearing the total toll of last summer’s 12-day war between Iran, Israel and the US – which HRANA estimates killed 1,190 people in Iran.

CNN’s Leila Gharagozlou and Jessie Yeung contributed to this reporting.

One of Britain’s two aircraft carriers has been put on an increased state of readiness, “reducing the time it would take to set sail for any deployment,” a defense ministry spokesperson told CNN.

That doesn’t mean that the British government has decided to deploy the HMS Prince of Wales nor that the warship cannot be involved in other planned missions, CNN understands. It simply means that the aircraft carrier would take less time to be deployed.

HMS Prince of Wales had been scheduled to take part in a NATO exercise later this year as part of the alliance’s effort to deter Russia, the defense ministry said last month.

The aircraft carrier’s change in status comes after the government faced criticism for being slow to deploy a warship to help defend Cyprus. Although Prime Minister Keir Starmer announced Tuesday that the UK was sending a warship to the Mediterranean island, it still hadn’t set sail as of Saturday afternoon, according to marine tracking websites.

Britain’s defense ministry also announced the US has started using British bases “for specific defensive operations to prevent Iran firing missiles into the region,” and confirmed that British jets continue to fly over Jordan, Qatar and Cyprus “in defence of British interests and allies.”

Starmer has sought to distinguish between the Americans’ offensive and defensive operations, and initally denied the US permission to use British bases for offensive strikes on Iran.