Trump vows to end war soon as Iran hits ships, threatens banks, and toll on U.S. forces emerges



Watch CBS News

Follow updates on the war in the Middle East for Thursday, March 12, here. See earlier developments below.

## What to know as the U.S. and Israel's war with Iran continues

- Suspected Iranian drones hit at least three ships in and around the Strait of Hormuz, continuing attacks that have paralyzed traffic through the vital shipping lane despite a stern warning from President Trump.
- He has said again that the war will end "soon," whenever he decides it should, as Iran says it's ready for "a long-term war of attrition that will destroy the entire American economy." Iran also warned that it would start targeting U.S.-linked banks across the Mideast.
- Drones hit Dubai's airport, wounding four people, the government said, adding that the major aviation hub was still operating. The UAE said it was intercepting Iranian drones and missiles, as well.
- Approximately 140 U.S. service members were wounded in the first 10 days of the war with Iran, the Pentagon said, as Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth said the U.S. and Israel were "winning" the war and rapidly meeting their objectives.

New Updates

4:04 AM / March 12, 2026

## Damage to historical sites in Iran raises alarm about war's impact on protected places

U.S. and Israeli strikes on Iran have damaged at least four cultural and historical sites, including palaces and an ancient mosque, raising alarms about the impact of the widening war on protected landmarks that are important to Iranian identity and world history.

The speed and extent of the damage have so concerned Iran and Lebanon that they sent a request to the United Nations' cultural agency, UNESCO, this week to add more sites to its enhanced protection list.

UNESCO confirmed that it has verified damage to the lavish Qajar-era Golestan Palace in Tehran as well as the 17th century Chehel Sotoun palace and the Masjed-e Jāme, the country's oldest Friday mosque, both in Isfahan. There also was verified damage at buildings close to the Khorramabad Valley, which includes five prehistoric caves and one rock shelter providing evidence of human occupation dating to 63,000 B.C.

At Golestan Palace, shattered glass from the mirrored ceilings blanketed the floors alongside broken archways, blown-out windows and damaged molding scattered below its glass-mosaic walls, according to Associated Press video taken March 3.

UNESCO said it provided all parties to the conflict with the geographical coordinates of the heritage sites ahead of time, "to take all feasible precautions to avoid damage."

The impact to cultural sites has not been isolated to Iran but has been felt across the Middle East and beyond, with UNESCO tracking damage to the White City in Israel, Tyre in Lebanon and elsewhere.

By The Associated Press

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-9862acf5

3:24 AM / March 12, 2026

## Indian crew member killed as 2 tankers attacked in Iraqi waters, authorities say

An Indian sailor was killed when a U.S.-owned crude oil tanker was attacked near the Iraqi port city of Basra, India's embassy in Baghdad said Thursday.

The vessel, the Safesea Vishnu, sailing under the Marshall Islands flag, came under attack Wednesday while operating near Basra, the embassy said.

The remaining 15 Indian crew members were evacuated and are safe, the embassy said.

Farhan Al-Fartousi, from Iraq's General Company for Ports, told Iraqi state television 38 crew members were rescued in all and the "search continues for the missing," according to French news agency AFP.

A second tanker was attacked near Iraq as well, AFP reports.

The Iraqi State Organization for Marketing of Oil (SOMO) confirmed in a statement that two oil tankers were attacked, without providing details on how. An employee at Iraq's Basra oil terminal told AFP it wasn't clear "whether it was a drone attack or explosive-laden boats."

SOMO said Maltese-flagged oil tanker Zefyros was attacked as it was getting ready to enter the port of Khor Al-Zoubair.

Both vessels had fires on board, the Reuters news agency reports.

CBS/AP

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-89622f73

2:04 AM / March 12, 2026

## 3 crew members "believed trapped" on Thai ship attacked on Strait of Hormuz, owner says

Three crew members were "believed to be trapped" aboard a Thai bulk carrier that was hit by two projectiles on Wednesday while traveling through the crucial Strait of Hormuz, the vessel's owner said.

Iran's Revolutionary Guards said Wednesday they had struck the Thai-registered Mayuree Naree, as well as a Liberia-flagged vessel, in the strait because the ships had ignored "warnings."

The Thai ship was struck Wednesday morning while transiting through the Gulf waterway after departing a port in the United Arab Emirates.

"The strikes damaged the Vessel's engine room and caused a fire," Thai transport company Precious Shipping said in a statement Wednesday evening.

"Three crew members are reported missing and believed to be trapped in the engine room," it said, adding that authorities were working to rescue them.

The Omani navy had rescued 20 sailors and efforts were underway to rescue the remaining three, the Thai navy said Wednesday.

Thailand's foreign ministry said all 23 crew members were Thai.

By AFP

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-369ea27f

1:04 AM / March 12, 2026

## Lebanon says 7 killed in Israeli strike on central Beirut

Lebanon said an early Thursday Israeli strike on central Beirut's seafront killed at least seven people and wounded 21 — another attack in the heart of the capital as Iran-backed Hezbollah launched more missiles at Israel.

The Israeli military said separately it had carried out strikes on Beirut's southern suburbs overnight against Hezbollah, which had announced a major new operation against Israel.

It was the third Israeli attack in the heart of the capital since the Middle East war began.

Israel has also repeatedly hit Beirut's southern suburbs. The Israel Defense Forces said Thursday's strike hit 10 Hezbollah targets.

By AFP

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-33a56c7a

11:30 PM / March 11, 2026

## Brent crude rises back up over $100 a barrel

Oil prices surged more than 9% to break back above $100 a barrel after fresh Iranian strikes on supplies and infrastructure in the Middle East overshadowed a release of stockpiles by the U.S. and the International Energy Agency.

Earlier Wednesday, U.S. Energy Secretary Christopher Wright announced the U.S. would release 172 million barrels of oil from its Strategic Petroleum Reserve, while the International Energy Agency — which has 32 member nations, including the U.S. — announced it would release 400 million barrels from its own reserves.

Brent crude, the primary benchmark for oil trade internationally, jumped 9.3% to $100.50, while West Texas Intermediate, the primary benchmark for oil in the U.S., was up 8.8% to $94.92.

CBS/AFP

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-e9c8f63e

11:07 PM / March 11, 2026

## Fetterman says war with Iran has been "effective," is moving toward an "appropriate outcome"

Democratic Sen. John Fetterman of Pennsylvania said Wednesday he believes the U.S.-Israel war with Iran has been "effective" and is moving toward an "appropriate outcome."

"I think, overall, what's accomplished is remarkable," Fetterman told CBS News chief White House correspondent Major Garrett in an interview Wednesday.

Pressed on whether the war was going "well," Fetterman responded, "Yes, absolutely. I mean, I'm not sure it's the right word I would choose for war, but I do think it's very effective. And then I do think it's moving towards the kinds of appropriate outcome."

Read more here.

By Faris Tanyos

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-f3949890

9:21 PM / March 11, 2026

## Embassy in Iran that works with U.S. citizens temporarily closes

Switzerland has temporarily closed its embassy in Iran, shuttering the diplomatic post that U.S. citizens in the country typically use.

The Swiss government said in a statement it closed its embassy "in view of the war in the Middle East and the increasing security risk," and its remaining staff members left the country on Wednesday. Staff are expected to return "as soon as the situation allows."

The U.S. has not had an embassy in Iran since 1979, when dozens of American diplomats were taken hostage in the wake of the Iranian Revolution. For decades, the Swiss embassy has served as the U.S.'s protecting power, meaning that it offers consular services to Americans in the country.

Switzerland's Federal Department of Foreign Affairs said it will "continue to maintain an open line of communication between the United States and Iran."

The U.S. State Department is encouraging Americans not to travel to Iran, and says any U.S. citizens there should shelter in place.

The U.S. Embassy in Switzerland said: "The U.S. government respects the Swiss government's decision to temporarily close its embassy in Iran. We are deeply grateful for the dedication of the Swiss Embassy and Swiss Protecting Power staff, whose vital work remains essential to protecting U.S. interests and supporting our citizens."

By Joe Walsh

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-7bdc2a7e

Updated 10:26 PM / March 11, 2026

## First week of Iran war cost U.S. about $11.3 billion, Pentagon tells lawmakers

Military officials told members of Congress in a briefing this week that the U.S.'s war with Iran cost around $11.3 billion in roughly its first week, according to sources familiar with the meeting.

That figure is a low-end estimate and does not include the build-up costs of moving assets into place ahead of the operation's start on Feb. 28.

The estimate was first reported by The New York Times.

Sen. Chris Coons, the top Democrat on the Senate subcommittee that handles defense appropriations, told reporters Wednesday: "I expect that the total operating number is significantly above that."

He said it would be a "fair guess" that the war's daily cost exceeds $1.5 billion, though it varies day-to-day depending on military operations. The cost of replacing the munitions that have been used in the war is probably "already well beyond $10 billion," he said.

The Delaware senator said he expects the Pentagon to ask lawmakers to pass a supplemental funding package for the Iran war. He did not specify how much money he expects the administration to request.

"Before I would even begin considering something like that, they owe us an accounting of how much has been expended," said Coons. "We did have some lengthy exchanges about that yesterday. I am not satisfied with the information I've got so far."

By Alan He, Joe Walsh

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-78f77d0d

8:23 PM / March 11, 2026

## Trump administration releasing 172 million barrels of oil from strategic reserve

President Trump ordered the release of 172 million barrels of oil from the United States' Strategic Petroleum Reserve on Wednesday, after oil prices rocketed to their highest levels in years amid the U.S.'s war with Iran.

The releases will start next week and take about 120 days, Energy Secretary Christopher Wright said Wednesday in a statement. The move is part of a coordinated release by the International Energy Agency, whose 32 member countries — mostly U.S. allies — announced earlier Wednesday they would let 400 million barrels of oil flow out of their emergency reserves.

Read more here.

By Joe Walsh

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-76472176

8:14 PM / March 11, 2026

## Officials downplay risk of Iranian drone attacks off California after FBI memo

An FBI memo warning that Iran may try to launch drones at California in a seaborne "surprise attack" raised concern Wednesday — but law enforcement officials and homeland security experts have cautioned that it may not point to an immediate threat.

Multiple U.S. and California law enforcement and intelligence officials tell CBS News there is no known, specific threat underpinning the memo, which was issued a week ago and distributed to local law enforcement by the FBI's Los Angeles office.

California Gov. Gavin Newsom said on X: "While we are not aware of any imminent threats at this time, we remain prepared for any emergency in our state."

The memo, which was obtained by CBS News on Wednesday, stems from an apparent tip that surfaced prior to the Iranian conflict.

Read more here.

By Nicole Sganga, Joe Walsh, Pat Milton, Katie Nielsen

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-39c676bf

7:20 PM / March 11, 2026

## IDF launches strikes in Tehran

The IDF said Wednesday it had "launched a wave of extensive strikes against targets in Tehran." Israel's military did not immediately provide further details on the strikes.

By Jordan Freiman

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-a7d0e9e0

6:31 PM / March 11, 2026

## UAE says "Iran must immediately cease its attacks" following adoption of U.N. resolution

The United Arab Emirates mission to the U.N. said Wednesday that the UAE "strongly welcomes" the adoption of a resolution passed by the U.N. Security Council calling for Iran to halt its attacks on Gulf states.

"The overwhelming support – reflected in the highest number of co-sponsorships in the Security Council's history – sends a clear message from the international community to Iran," the UAE mission said. "The Security Council is clear: Iran must immediately cease its attacks against our countries."

The resolution was adopted earlier Wednesday in a 13-0 vote, with China and Russia abstaining.

By Jordan Freiman

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-4182df27

5:44 PM / March 11, 2026

## UAE says Iran fired 6 ballistic missiles, 7 cruise missiles today

The United Arab Emirates Defense Ministry said Wednesday that Iran had fired six ballistic missiles and seven cruise missiles, along with 39 drones, toward the country today. It did not provide specifics on how many got through its air defenses or what, if any, damage may have occurred.

By Jordan Freiman

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-f6cbf06b

5:32 PM / March 11, 2026

## Qatar intercepted 8 of 9 ballistic missiles fired from Iran today, Defense Ministry says

Qatar's Defense Ministry said Wednesday that Iran had fired nine ballistic missiles and several drones toward the country. It said all of the drones and eight of the missiles were intercepted today, with the one that got through landing in an uninhabited area.

By Jordan Freiman

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-fed41773

5:14 PM / March 11, 2026

## Trump says "we've won" in Iran

Speaking to supporters in Kentucky, the president said the U.S. has "won" in Iran, and the war was "over" in the first hour. The president also asked the crowd if they thought "Operation Epic Fury" was a great name.

"Is that a great name?" he asked. "Well, it's only good if you win, you know? You can only do — and we've won. Let me tell you, we've won. You know, you never like to say too early you've won. We won, we won. In the first hour, it was over."

The president joked that he was "full-on asleep" when officials were suggesting names, until they suggested "Operation Epic Fury."

By Kathryn Watson

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-682f1b0f

4:58 PM / March 11, 2026

## Trump says U.S. may tap into Strategic Petroleum Reserve to bring oil prices down

In an interview with WKRC-TV in Cincinnati, President Trump was asked if he has a threshold for tapping into the United States' Strategic Petroleum Reserve. The emergency stockpile is maintained by the Department of Energy.

"Well we'll do that, and then we'll fill it up," Mr. Trump responded. "I filled it up once and I'll fill it up again. But right now, we'll reduce it a little bit, and that brings the prices down. We have to get rid of the evil."

By Kathryn Watson

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-a5185b57

4:47 PM / March 11, 2026

## U.S. stock market remains calm, even as oil prices rise

The U.S. stock market remained calm Wednesday, even as the price of oil got back to rising.

The S&P 500 edged down 0.1% for a second day of modest moves following what had been a wild stretch caused by the war with Iran. The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 289 points, or 0.6%, and the Nasdaq composite rose 0.1%.

Since the start of the war, sharp moves for oil prices have triggered swings up and down for financial markets worldwide, sometimes by the hour.

Oil prices briefly spiked to their highest levels since 2022 this week because of the possibility that production in the Middle East could be blocked for a long time, which in turn raised worries about a surge of debilitating inflation for the global economy.

The price for a barrel of Brent crude, the international standard, rose 4.8% to settle at $91.98. A barrel of benchmark U.S. crude gained 4.6% to $87.25.

By The Associated Press

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-4b1a9ee3

4:13 PM / March 11, 2026

## U.N. Security Council demands Iran halt attacks on Gulf states

The U.N. Security Council passed a resolution Wednesday calling for Iran to immediately halt its attacks on Gulf states, saying they breach international law and pose a "serious threat to international peace and security."

The resolution, passed by 13 votes with two abstentions, "demands the immediate cessation of all attacks by the Islamic Republic of Iran against Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, and Jordan."

It also "condemns any actions or threats by the Islamic Republic of Iran aimed at closing, obstructing, or otherwise interfering with international navigation through the Strait of Hormuz."

By AFP

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-aaf9b683

4:03 PM / March 11, 2026

## Trump says Iran operation is both an excursion and a war

A reporter asked President Trump about his descriptions of the operation in Iran as a "short-term excursion" and, separately, a war. The reporter asked which is it — a brief excursion or a war?

"Well, it's both," the president said during a trip to Ohio. "It's both. It's an excursion that will keep us out of a war, and the war is going to be, I mean, for them, it's a war. For us, it's turned out to be easier than we thought."

By Kathryn Watson

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-fa727652

3:36 PM / March 11, 2026

## Trump says U.S. has hit 28 Iranian minelaying ships

President Trump said U.S. forces have hit 28 Iranian minelaying ships as of Wednesday.

"They started talking about mines, so we hit 28 mine ships as of this moment," the president told reporters while touring a pharmaceutical company in Cincinnati.

U.S. officials had told CBS News that Iran may have been preparing to use naval mines in the key Strait of Hormuz off the Iranian coast.

By Alex Sundby

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-f7ec4601

2:56 PM / March 11, 2026

## Pentagon confirms identity of 6th service member killed in Kuwait

The Defense Department has confirmed the identity of the sixth Army reservist killed in an Iranian drone attack in Kuwait on March 1.

A medical examiner identified the reservist as Chief Warrant Officer 3 Robert Marzan, the Pentagon said in a statement Wednesday.

Marzan, 54, was initially believed to have died in the strike, but the Pentagon said the medical examiner would identify the remains.

Marzan was from Sacramento, California.

By Alex Sundby

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-ba68d05e

2:17 PM / March 11, 2026

## U.S. military warns Iranian civilians to avoid ports used by Iran's forces

U.S. Central Command said Iran's use of civilian ports for military purposes makes the ports legitimate targets under international law and warned civilians to avoid any port facility where Iranian naval forces are operating.

"The Iranian regime is using civilian ports along the Strait of Hormuz to conduct military operations that threaten international shipping," Central Command said Wednesday. "This dangerous action risks the lives of innocent people. Civilian ports used for military purposes lose protected status and become legitimate military targets under international law."

"Iranian dockworkers, administrative personnel, and commercial vessel crews should avoid Iranian naval vessels and military equipment," Central Command said. "Iranian naval forces have positioned military vessels and equipment within civilian ports serving commercial maritime traffic."

By Eleanor Watson, Sarah Lynch Baldwin

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-09608027

1:50 PM / March 11, 2026

## State Department to scale down charter flights, ground options out of Middle East

The State Department said Wednesday that its charter flights and ground transport operations will scale down as the number of available seats is significantly greater than the demand from U.S. citizens in the region.

Assistant Secretary Dylan Johnson said in a statement that the department invited nearly 9,000 Americans and their families in the United Arab Emirates to travel on U.S. government charter flights Wednesday.

"Despite those efforts, those flights departed the UAE with available seats due to a lack of demand," Johnson said.

"Most Americans who requested assistance have declined assistance when offered, opting either to remain in country or book commercial flight options," Johnson added.

The department says it has completed more than three dozen charter flights and evacuated thousands of Americans from the region.

By Sarah Lynch Baldwin, Olivia Gazis

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-5a2687f0

1:08 PM / March 11, 2026

## Trump: "I don't know about" reporting that investigators believe U.S. was likely behind school bombing

President Trump on Wednesday was asked about Reuters, CBS News and New York Times reporting that a preliminary military investigation into the bombing of an elementary school in Iran found the U.S. was likely responsible.

Initially, the president suggested to reporters that Iran might be behind it. When he was asked on Monday why he made that assertion when no one else in his administration did, Mr. Trump said, "I don't know enough about it."

On Wednesday, when he was asked about the latest reporting suggesting the U.S. may be at fault, the president said, "I don't know about it."

By Kathryn Watson

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-b03f28a4

1:04 PM / March 11, 2026

## Iran's sports minister says country can't participate in World Cup

Iran's sports minister said it is not possible for the country to take part in the World Cup tournament in the United States "due to the wicked acts they have done against Iran."

"They have imposed two wars on us over just eight or nine months and have killed and martyred thousands of our people – definitely it's not possible for us to take part in the World Cup," Sports Minister Ahmad Donyamali told state TV, The Associated Press reported.

President Trump had told FIFA representatives on Tuesday that Iran was welcome to play in the tournament, officials told CBS News. The war came up in conversation with the soccer association's president, Gianni Infantino, and White House FIFA task force executive director Andrew Giuliani in the Oval Office, according to sources familiar with the conversation.

Infantino had posted on social media: "We all need an event like the FIFA World Cup to bring people together now more than ever."

By Sarah Lynch Baldwin, Jennifer Jacobs

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-1a2f8dca

12:50 PM / March 11, 2026

## Trump: U.S. needs to do "more of the same" in Iran to complete operation

A reporter asked President Trump on the White House South Lawn Wednesday what more needs to happen militarily for the operation in Iran to end.

"More of the same," the president responded. "And we'll see how that all comes out. Right now, they've lost their navy, they've lost their air force, they have no anti-aircraft apparatus at all. They have no radar. Their leaders are gone. And we could do a lot worse."

By Kathryn Watson

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-8258c9bd

12:37 PM / March 11, 2026

## Ex-maritime captain: Tankers that use Strait of Hormuz "more damage-tolerant than many assume"

A former captain of a merchant vessel says large tankers that transit the Strait of Hormuz are "robust, highly engineered structures" that are "far more damage-tolerant than many assume."

"They do not necessarily sink from a single hit," said Seyedvahid Vakili, who is a research fellow at the University of Southampton. But he noted that they are not designed for combat.

"A direct strike can still cause fire, flooding, machinery failure, pollution, crew casualties, and prolonged disruption," he said in a statement. "The issue is not simply whether a ship sinks, but whether it remains safe, operable, and commercially viable after an attack."

The Strait of Hormuz is a key artery in the global oil trade, and any disruption of it will affect global energy markets and trade flows because of the "lack of equivalent alternatives," Vakili said.

Shipping companies use the narrow waterway because "alternative routes are limited, and in many cases would add significant time, cost, and logistical complexity," Vakili said.

During the current conflict, "whether naval escorts are expanded is ultimately a security question, but from a shipping perspective, escorted transit is usually intended to reduce risk rather than eliminate it," he said.

By Haley Ott

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-7b4979cd

12:18 PM / March 11, 2026

## U.S. has struck more than 5,500 targets inside Iran, Central Command says

The U.S. has hit more than 5,500 targets inside Iran, including over 60 ships, "using a variety of precision weapon systems," Brad Cooper, head of U.S. Central Command, said Wednesday in a video update on the war with Iran.

"Strikes waves" took place nearly every hour Tuesday, hitting Iran from different locations and directions, he said, adding that the U.S. destroyed the last of Iran's four Soleimani-class warships.

Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth had said that Tuesday would be the "most intense day" of strikes against Iran since the war began on Feb. 28.

Cooper said U.S. forces were "leveraging a variety of advanced AI tools" that help them sift through vast amounts of data in seconds and make decisions faster than the enemy can react.

"Humans will always make final decisions on what to shoot and what not to shoot and when to shoot, but advanced AI tools can turn processes that used to take hours, and sometimes even days, into seconds," he said.

His comments on AI come after a memo showed the Defense Department officially notified senior leadership figures throughout the U.S. military that they must remove Anthropic's artificial intelligence products from their systems within 180 days. The memo was dated March 6, a day after the Pentagon formally designated Anthropic a supply chain risk. Anthropic is currently the only AI company whose models are deployed on the Pentagon's classified systems.

By Sarah Lynch Baldwin, Eleanor Watson

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-1532112c

11:59 AM / March 11, 2026

## Global banks adjust staffing in Gulf after Iran threatens to target U.S.-linked financial institutions

Following a warning from the Iranian military on Wednesday that it would begin targeting banks linked with the U.S. and Israel, several Western financial institutions confirmed to CBS News that they were taking measures to protect staff in the region.

Contacted by CBS News about a report that Standard Chartered had evacuated employees from Dubai, a representative of the U.K.-based international bank said staff had been urged to work from home on Wednesday, in line with other institutions, but that there was otherwise no change in staffing.

The U.S. banking giant Citigroup told CBS News the few staff who had gone to its office in the Dubai International Financial Center on Wednesday were later told to go home by authorities, but most employees were already working remotely.

"The safety of our employees is our number one priority, and we are continuing to take measures to help keep our employees and their families safe. The vast majority of our people are already working from home and we are continuing to serve our clients without interruption, and we have robust contingency and resilience plans in place to ensure business continuity," Citi said in a statement.

The French news agency AFP reported, meanwhile, that the British company PricewaterhouseCoopers, or PwC, had closed its offices in Saudi Arabia, Qatar, the UAE and Kuwait, at least for the rest of the week, as a "precaution," citing a source with knowledge of the matter.

PwC did not immediately respond to CBS News' request for comment on the story.

By Tucker Reals, Elena Giuliano

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-4047361f

11:34 AM / March 11, 2026

## Iran's new Supreme Leader Mojtaba Khamenei wounded in strike that killed his dad, but "safe," regime says

Iran's new Supreme Leader Ayatollah Mojtaba Khamenei, who has not spoken or been seen in public since his appointment over the weekend, was injured in the same U.S. or Israeli strike that killed his father and predecessor on the first day of the war, but he was "safe," officials said Wednesday.

"I heard news that Mr. Mojtaba Khamenei had been injured. I have asked some friends who had connections," Yousef Pezeshkian wrote in a post on his Telegram channel. "They told me that, thank God, he is safe and sound."

Yousef Pezeshkian is Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian's son, and a government adviser himself.

"He was also there and he was injured in that bombardment but I haven't seen that reflected in the foreign news," Iran's ambassador to Cyprus, Alireza Salarian, told The Guardian newspaper Wednesday.

Mojtaba Khamenei, the second son of Iran's late Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, visits Hezbollah's office in Tehran, Iran, Oct. 1, 2024. Office of the Iranian Supreme Leader/WANA/via Reuters

The strike on the compound in central Tehran also killed other members of the Khamenei family, including Mojtaba's wife and mother, according to Iranian authorities.

There had been mounting questions about Mojtaba Khamenei's health, and even speculation online that he might have died along with his relatives.

State television had called him a "wounded veteran of the Ramadan war" without giving details, in reference to the conflict which broke out during the Muslim holy month.

CBS/AFP

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-0ef58737

Updated 2:03 PM / March 11, 2026

## Dozens of U.S. service members suffered serious injuries in March 1 Iranian strike on Kuwait, sources say

The Iranian drone attack in Kuwait that killed six U.S. service members in the early hours of the war with Iran was more severe than has previously been revealed, with dozens suffering injuries including brain trauma, shrapnel wounds and burns, multiple sources told CBS News. At least one may require the amputation of a limb.

Sources described a chaotic scene in the aftermath of the strike on a tactical operations center at the Shuaiba port outside Kuwait City on March 1. Smoke quickly filled the building, making it difficult to rescue those inside.

More than 30 U.S. service members remained hospitalized on Tuesday night with battle injuries from the Kuwait attack — one at Brooke Army Medical Center in San Antonio, 12 at Walter Reed Medical Center in suburban Washington, D.C., and about 25 at Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Germany, sources said.

Of those, about 20 arrived on a C-17 military transport aircraft at Landstuhl on Tuesday with injuries the military designated as "urgent" and requiring evacuation, including traumatic brain injuries, memory loss and concussions, three of the sources said.

Editor's note: A previous version of this post said that at least one of the Americans wounded in the March 1 attack in Kuwait "required the amputation of a limb," but the individual has not yet undergone an amputation. The report has been updated.

Read more here.

By Jennifer Jacobs, Eleanor Watson, James LaPorta

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-8564bd33

10:44 AM / March 11, 2026

## International Energy Agency to release 400 million barrels of oil

The International Energy Agency said Wednesday that it will release 400 million barrels of oil from emergency reserves, the largest release in the multinational organization's history.

The announcement comes as the Strait of Hormuz remains effectively closed due to Iran's threats and continued targeting of cargo vessels in the region. Roughly a fifth of the world's oil supply typically flows through the critical waterway.

"On the face of it, a large release of strategic reserves from the IEA would help to bring prices down," Hamad Hussein, climate and commodities economist with investment adviser Capital Economics, said in a note to clients. "Indeed, oil prices fell back below $100 [per barrel] this week following discussions that the IEA was considering releasing oil reserves."

Hussein noted, however, that oil prices remaining lower would depend on how the conflict evolves.

Read more here.

The Strait of Hormuz is a crucial passageway for oil shipments from Gulf states. Bedirhan Demirel/Anadolu/Getty

By Megan Cerullo

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-fd3171fc

10:24 AM / March 11, 2026

## Iran says it's ready for "long-term war of attrition" as Trump says it will end soon, "any time I want it to"

Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps warned Wednesday that the country was prepared for a long "war of attrition," as the Trump administration continued suggesting the conflict gripping the Middle East would soon be over.

Israel and the U.S. "must consider the possibility that they will be engaged in a long-term war of attrition that will destroy the entire American economy and the world economy, and will cause all of its military capabilities to be eroded to the point of destruction," Ali Fadavi, an adviser to the Iranian IRGC's Commander-in-Chief, told state television on Wednesday.

President Trump, meanwhile, told Axios in a phone interview Wednesday that the war would end "soon," because there was "practically nothing left to target" in Iran.

"Any time I want it to end, it will end," Mr. Trump said during the five-minute phone interview with Axios' Barak Ravid.

By Tucker Reals

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-c8d7b400

9:57 AM / March 11, 2026

## Senior Qatari diplomat says "for all intents and purposes, a regional war" has engulfed the Middle East

A senior Qatari official, who has worked for years in the Gulf state's ministry of foreign affairs, told CBS News on Wednesday that the Middle East has, "for all intents and purposes," been engulfed in a regional war that governments in the region warned about for years.

Dr. Majed Al-Ansari, an adviser to the Qatari prime minister and the official spokesperson for the country's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, told CBS News that Gulf states had warned for years that, left unchecked, escalations that first hit Syria, and then Gaza and Lebanon, risked spiraling into something much bigger.

In Doha's view, that dire prediction has now come true.

"We said very clearly that escalation left unchecked will result in a regional war," he told CBS News. "What we have right now is, for all intents and purposes, a regional war."

Iran, he said, has targeted seven Gulf countries since the U.S. and Israel launched their assault on the Islamic Republic on Feb. 28, pulling countries into a war they never wanted to be a part of.

Al-Ansari said Qataris' reality has been shaken as missile alerts now light up people's phones overnight and interceptors fly overhead.

"This is now a daily occurrence," he said. "We are awakened at 4 a.m. by alerts on our phones."

"I would have never expected for my daughters to live in a situation where missiles would be overhead almost constantly throughout the day," al-Ansari said.

By Imtiaz Tyab

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-ef19dbbf

9:27 AM / March 11, 2026

## Interior Secretary Doug Burgum says Gulf allies have "never been happier" for U.S. military presence

Appearing on Fox & Friends, Interior Secretary Doug Burgum said U.S. allies in the Persian Gulf have "never been happier" to have an American military presence in their countries.

"Well, I think our Gulf state allies have never been happier than they have now to have U.S. military presence in their country and to have a strong relationship, both economically and in terms of energy industry, with the United States," he said. "They understand who supports them and who supports their growth and prosperity, and they're starting to realize that the terror regime of Iran has to end."

Burgum called the U.S.-Israeli operation in Iran a "short-term interruption traded for long-term transformation of peace and prosperity," adding that "when that happens, energy prices are going to come down all over the world."

By Anne Bryson, Kathryn Watson

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-4711d88f

9:07 AM / March 11, 2026

## Iranian IRGC claims strike on Thailand-flagged cargo ship damaged in Strait of Hormuz

Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps claimed responsibility for an attack earlier Wednesday on the Thailand-flagged bulk carrier Mayuree Naree off the coast of Oman, saying the vessel had ignored IRGC warnings and tried to transit the Strait of Hormuz.

The United Kingdom Maritime Trade Operations center, run by the British military, said earlier that the vessel was hit by a projectile about 10 nautical miles off Oman's coast in the strait.

In a subsequent update, UKMTO said a fire on the vessel was out, there was no environmental impact, and a skeleton crew remained aboard the ship.

The Thailand-flagged cargo ship Mayuree Naree is seen engulfed in smoke in the Strait of Hormuz, March 11, 2026. ROYAL THAI NAVY/Handout/REUTERS

The IRGC's claim, relayed by the semi-official Tasnim news agency, also said a container ship called the Express Rome, sailing under the flag of Liberia, was hit. That ship appeared to be anchored off the coast of the United Arab Emirates on Wednesday, in the Persian Gulf, but there were no other reports of it being attacked.

By Tucker Reals, Joanne Stocker

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-62c2c4f9

8:52 AM / March 11, 2026

## Spain pulls ambassador from Israel as top diplomat calls in Europe to "defend the international order"

Spain has withdrawn its Ambassador to Israel, the Spanish government's official news portal announced Tuesday, without any further explanation.

"At the proposal of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation, and after deliberation by the Council of Ministers at its meeting of 10 March 2026, I hereby order the dismissal of Ms. Ana María Sálomon Pérez as Ambassador of Spain to the State of Israel, thanking her for the services rendered," the bulletin said.

The Reuters news agency, citing sources in Spain, said the ambassador would not be replaced, and the country would be represented in Israel by a lower-ranking charges d'affaires.

Spain's government has been among the most vocal European critics of the U.S.-Israeli war against Iran launched on Feb. 28. It denied the U.S. military use of bases in southern Spain for American operations against Iran, and speaking Tuesday, Spain's Foreign Minister Jose Manuel Albares said it was up to Europe to "defend the international order, because the alternative to the international order, is chaos, no order."

By Tucker Reals

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-313fa6e8

8:37 AM / March 11, 2026

## Trump told FIFA that Iran is welcome to play in World Cup in U.S., officials say

President Trump told FIFA representatives Tuesday that Iran is welcome to play in the World Cup tournament in the United States, officials told CBS News.

The war, now in its 12th day, came up in the conversation with the soccer association's president, Gianni Infantino, and White House FIFA task force executive director Andrew Giuliani in the Oval Office on Tuesday evening, according to sources familiar with the conversation.

Infantino later posted on social media: "We all need an event like the FIFA World Cup to bring people together now more than ever."

Read more here.

By Jennifer Jacobs

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-a25dcf69

8:20 AM / March 11, 2026

## U.K. bans pro-Palestinian protest citing ties to Iranian regime

London's Metropolitan Police banned an upcoming pro-Palestine protest, which it said was "uniquely contentious having originated in Iran and in London is organized by the Islamic Human Rights Commission, an organization supportive of the Iranian regime."

It said it was the first time the police had used its powers to ban protests since 2012.

"The Met has safely policed hundreds of protests from across the political spectrum including 32 major pro-Palestinian protests and many more both pro and anti the Iranian regime. Where those protests present risks, they can normally be managed," the Metropolitan Police said in a statement. "But in our assessment this march raises unique risks and challenges. We must consider the likely high numbers of protestors and counter protestors coming together and the extreme tensions between different factions. We have taken into consideration the likely impact on protests of the volatile situation in the Middle East, with the Iranian regime attacking British allies and military bases overseas."

The Met also said it had considered threats from the Iranian regime on U.K. soil.

"Previous Al Quds marches have resulted in arrests for supporting terrorist organisations and antisemitic hate crimes. However, the decision to ban it this year is purely based on a risk assessment of this specific protest and counter-protests – we do not police taste or decency or prefer one political view over another, but we will do everything we can to reduce violence and disorder."

By Haley Ott

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-dbd64048

7:59 AM / March 11, 2026

## Iran state TV says "massive turnout" for funeral in Tehran for "fallen heroes"

Iran's state-run media said a funeral was underway in central Tehran Wednesday for high-ranking military commanders and civilians killed in the war with the U.S. and Israel.

"The procession started at Enghelab Square, with a massive turnout of Tehran residents paying tribute to the fallen heroes," state TV said.

It was the second funeral for multiple people, including senior military officers, held in Iran in as many days.

CBS News' producer in Tehran was invited to attend a burial ceremony on Tuesday just south of the Iranian capital.

The Iranian government has not allowed media outlets to publicize anti-regime voices from inside Iran, and no one against the war or the regime would speak to CBS News on camera at the Tuesday burial ceremony, even with the promise of anonymity.

By Tucker Reals, Haley Ott

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-3a54865f

7:30 AM / March 11, 2026

## Bodies of Iranian soldiers killed in U.S. submarine attack to be returned to Iran

A Sri Lankan court has ordered the bodies of 84 Iranian soldiers killed in a U.S. submarine attack off the country's southern coast to be returned to Iran, the AP and Reuters news agencies reported Wednesday.

The Iranian warship IRIS Dena was returning from a naval exercise organized by India last Wednesday when it was hit by a torpedo fired by a U.S. submarine.

The bodies of those killed were being held in the morgue of the Galle National Hospital.

Sri Lanka has issued visas for 208 crew members of a second Iranian vessel that experienced engine problems in the same area as the IRIS Dena, Reuters reported.

32 people survived the attack on the IRIS Dena, according to the news agency.

By Haley Ott

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-e0d47d02

7:11 AM / March 11, 2026

## Italy's leader, a Trump ally, suggests U.S. and Israel have broken international law with Iran war

Italy's leader Giorgia Meloni suggested the U.S. and Israel had broken international law with the ongoing war against Iran, according to Italy's national news agency ANSA.

"It is in this situation of crisis of the international system in which threats are becoming increasingly terrifying and unilateral interventions conducted outside the perimeter of international law are multiplying that we must also place the American and Israeli intervention against the Iranian regime," Meloni told Italy's senate on Wednesday, ANSA reported.

"We do not have a government here that is complicit in other people's decisions, much less one that is isolated in Europe, or culpable for the economic consequences the crisis may have on citizens and businesses," Meloni said.

Meloni added her "firm condemnation of the massacre of girls at the school in Minab, southern Iran," according to the French news agency AFP, referring to a strike on the first day of the war that Iran has blamed on the U.S. or Israel, and which it said killed at least 168 children.

Iranian state media said 168 people were killed in a strike on a girl's school in Minab, southern Iran, on Feb. 28, the first day of the U.S.-Israeli war against Iran. Damage is seen to the building in this photo from March 5, 2026. Stringer/Anadolu/Getty

The Italian leader called for "responsibility for this tragedy" to be "swiftly ascertained."

Israel has denied any connection to the strike on the school, while President Trump has blamed Tehran for the attack, but also said Washington is investigating.

The preliminary U.S. assessment suggests the United States was "likely" responsible for the deadly attack but did not intentionally target the school, with dated intelligence possibly to blame, a person briefed on the preliminary intelligence told CBS News on Monday.

By Haley Ott

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-51672b03

6:52 AM / March 11, 2026

## Israeli military issues further evacuation orders for areas in southern Lebanon

The Israeli military issued new evacuation orders for residents in six areas of southern Lebanon on Tuesday, claiming activities being carried out by the Iran-backed group Hezbollah were "forcing" the Israeli army "to take action against it."

Residents have been ordered to move to locations north of the Litani River.

"Anyone present near Hezbollah elements, their facilities, and their combat means is endangering their lives," an IDF spokesperson said. "Any home used by Hezbollah for military purposes will be subject to targeting."

Destruction is seen in front of the building where at least four people were injured in an Israeli strike on a residential building in the Aisha Bakkar area of central Beirut, Lebanon, March 11, 2026. Adri Salido/Getty

By Haley Ott

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-5110e423

6:48 AM / March 11, 2026

## Greece to cap food and fuel prices to avoid spiraling war costs

Greece will cap profit margins on gasoline and a range of foodstuffs for three months, the prime minister said Wednesday, as the Middle East war raised fears of a price surge.

In a meeting with the country's president, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said the government was "vigilant" for further effects of the conflict and warned retailers against "profiteering."

The state caps mean the targeted sectors, such as gas stations and supermarkets, can make only a certain margin on consumer retail sales. The aim is to prevent an artificial increase in margins when international prices rise.

By AFP

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-eda24327

6:34 AM / March 11, 2026

## Reza Pahlavi, opposition figure and son of Iran's former shah, sends message to Iranians

Reza Pahlavi, an exiled Iranian opposition figure and the son of the former shah, whose name was chanted during some of the protests that swept across the country earlier this year, said Tuesday that Iran was "in a very sensitive stage of our final struggle," in a statement shared on social media.

"I ask you to prepare your essential needs as soon as possible, and for the sake of your own security, leave the streets and stay in your homes," Pahlavi said, addressing the Iranian people. "Continue the strike and do not show up for work. To demonstrate your unity, keep up the nighttime chants with full force."

Pahlavi warned Iran's military and security forces that it was their "last chance to separate yourselves from the repressive forces and join the people."

Pahlavi told Iranians to "await my final call," without providing any further information on any action he expected in the coming hours or days.

By Haley Ott

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-ff28f1b2

6:16 AM / March 11, 2026

## UAE says it is intercepting new "missile and drone attacks" from Iran

The United Arab Emirates said it was deflecting a new round of missiles and drones launched by Iran on Wednesday morning.

"The UAE's air defenses are currently dealing with missile and drone attacks originating from Iran," the country's Ministry of Defense said in a social media post, explaining bangs heard in various parts of the country as "the result of air defense systems intercepting ballistic missiles and fighter jets intercepting drones and other aerial vehicles."

The UAE has been pummeled by relentless drone and missile attacks by Iran since the war began on Feb. 28, and multiple sources told CBS News on Tuesday that the White House was aware of America's Gulf allies running short on missile interceptors, forcing them to choose which objects to blow up and which not to.

The White House has discussed the matter, the sources told CBS News.

CBS News' Margaret Brennan first reported on March 5 that Gulf states were running dangerously low on missile interceptors and had asked the U.S. to expedite new supplies. U.S. allies in the region were told that officials in Washington were creating a task force to get them new supplies, but the sources said it wasn't happening as quickly as they needed.

By Tucker Reals, Jennifer Jacobs

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-103deb24

6:07 AM / March 11, 2026

## Iran says it will target U.S. and Israeli-linked banks across Middle East, tells people to stay away

An Iranian military spokesperson said Wednesday that the country would begin targeting banks across the Middle East linked to the U.S. and Israel, following an alleged attack on an Iranian bank.

"Following their failed campaign, the terrorist U.S. army and cruel Zionist regime (Israel) have targeted one of the country's banks," Iranian state media quoted Ebrahim Zolfaqari, a spokesperson for the Islamic Republic's central military command, as saying.

"With this illegitimate and uncommon action, the enemy is forcing our hand to target economic centres and banks linked to the U.S. and Zionist regime in the region."

He warned people to stay at least a kilometer, or about half a mile, away from banks in the region.

By Tucker Reals

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-d60fb602

6:07 AM / March 11, 2026

## Drones injure 4 people "in the vicinity of Dubai International Airport," government says

Dubai's government said Wednesday that four people suffered minor to moderate injuries when drones fell in or near the major airport in the United Arab Emirates.

"Authorities confirm that two drones fell in the vicinity of Dubai International Airport (DXB) a short while ago, resulting in minor injuries to two Ghanaian nationals and one Bangladeshi national, and moderate injuries to one Indian national. Air traffic is operating as normal," the Dubai administration said on its official social media channels.

Dubai has been hit repeatedly by Iranian missile and drone strikes during the war, and the wider UAE has seen at least six people killed and more than 100 wounded in the attacks.

By Tucker Reals

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-5cd7777d

6:07 AM / March 11, 2026

## Cargo ship hit by projectile in Strait of Hormuz, fire put out but damage caused

A projectile hit a cargo ship in the Strait of Hormuz early Wednesday morning, causing damage and a fire on board, after President Trump warned Iran to stop hindering shipping traffic through the vital waterway.

The United Kingdom Maritime Trade Operations center, run by the British military, said the vessel, identified by CBS News Confirmed as the Thai-flagged bulk carrier Mayuree Naree, was hit Wednesday just north of Oman in the strait.

In a subsequent update, UKMTO said the fire was out, there was no environmental impact, and that a skeleton crew remained aboard the vessel.

The Thailand-flagged cargo ship Mayuree Naree is seen engulfed in smoke in the Strait of Hormuz, March 11, 2026. ROYAL THAI NAVY/Handout/REUTERS

By Tucker Reals

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-e740b31b

6:07 AM / March 11, 2026

## Container ship damaged in strike off UAE coast

British authorities said a container ship was hit off the United Arab Emirates coast early Wednesday morning, about 25 nautical miles northwest of the UAE port of Ra's al Khaymah.

"The Master of a container vessel has reported that the vessel has sustained damage from a suspected but unknown projectile. Extent of the damage is currently unknown but under investigation by the crew. The Master additionally reports that all crew members are safe and accounted for," UKMTO said.

CBS News Confirmed identified the vessel as the Japanese-flagged container ship ONE Majesty.

By Tucker Reals

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-a94376ac

6:07 AM / March 11, 2026

## Container vessel hit by projectile west of Strait of Hormuz, off Dubai coast

The United Kingdom Maritime Trade Operations center, run by the British military, said it had received a report from a cargo ship about 50 nautical miles northwest of Dubai, west of the Strait of Hormuz, that it had been hit by an unknown projectile.

"There is no report of any environmental impact. The crew are reported safe and well. Authorities are investigating," the UKMTO said, without naming the vessel.

CBS News Confirmed identified the ship as the Marshall Islands-flagged bulk carrier Star Gwyneth.

By Tucker Reals

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-810f3706

6:07 AM / March 11, 2026

## 6 of 7 Iranian soccer players granted asylum in Australia staying in the country, officials say

Two more members of the Iranian national women's soccer team were granted asylum in Australia before their teammates departed, but one of the women later changed her mind and decided to return to Iran, Home Affairs Minister Tony Burke told reporters on Wednesday.

He said the two were reunited with five players who were granted humanitarian visas a day earlier.

One of the women later changed her mind and will return to Iran, Burke said. The rest of the team left Sydney to return to Iran late on Tuesday.

Read more here.

CBS/AP

https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/iran-war-us-israel-strait-of-hormuz-ship-attacks-persian-gulf-drones-missiles/#post-update-97a5212e

#### Group claiming antisemitic attacks threatens U.S., Israeli interests worldwide

#### Iran war grinds on amid conflicting messages from Trump and Tehran

#### U.S. sent Iran a message via mediators as Trump says deal is possible, Iranian official says

#### Strait of Hormuz dotted with about a dozen Iranian mines, U.S. officials say

#### Could the Iran war help Ukraine get back in Trump's good books?

#### Why Israel Doesn’t Believe That You Can Negotiate with Iran

#### Ceasefire or Not, Iran Looks for Ways to Reduce the Risk of a U.S. Reprisal

In:

- War
- Iran
- Israel
- Donald Trump
- Middle East
- Strait of Hormuz

View CBS News In

CBS News App Open

Chrome Safari Continue