Elite US troops may launch ‘snatch raid’ on Iran’s nuclear stockpile, dated Wednesday March 11 2026, 10.35pm GMT, The Times, reports that if President Trump is serious about a ground operation to seize what is left of Iran’s nuclear programme, US special forces — probably Delta Force — may attempt a covert “snatch operation” to retrieve enriched uranium believed to be stored mostly at the Isfahan nuclear facility, with movements in and out constantly monitored by American spy agencies; the stockpile is thought to be vulnerable only in a “narrow window of opportunity” if it has not already been moved to a secret location. Former MI6 intelligence officer Chris Steele warned, “It will not be easy. [The uranium] will be dispersed and if the Iranians had any sense they would have prepared contingencies.” A source said the Iranians “could be moving it every 24 hours or it might be sat in an underground bunker,” and that the Pentagon had already war-gamed securing the stockpile. The plan could involve an advance party parachuting in under cover of darkness, helicopters bringing the rest of the troops, specialist scientists to handle the material, and air support “killing radar systems and air defence”; if tunnels are blocked, excavating equipment and protective gear for any leak of gaseous uranium may be needed. Fordow, Natanz and Isfahan were seriously damaged last June, and satellite images show craters from America’s bombs at Fordow and some work compatible with securing the sites but no serious reconstitution. Iran is believed to hold 440kg of uranium enriched to 60 per cent, enough if raised to 90 per cent to build 11 nuclear warheads; the IAEA does not know the exact location of the whole stockpile, and Trump said on Air Force One, with Steve Witkoff and Pete Hegseth aboard, that “It was a total obliteration, they haven’t been able to get to it,” adding, “At some point maybe we will. It would be a great thing. But right now we’re just decimating them. But we haven’t gone in. It’s something we can do later on.” The article also notes another back-up site near Natanz under Pickaxe Mountain, 80m to 100m down, and that Israel claims secret sites including Taleghan 2 remain in its crosshairs. ### What happens if OpenAI or Anthropic fail? | Reuters, dated March 11 2026, and the Reuters Breakingviews refiled version titled the same on March 11 2026, say the AI boom could make for a nasty bust because Alphabet, Amazon.com, Meta Platforms and Microsoft plan to spend about $650 billion this year on chip-packed data centres, roughly 2% of U.S. GDP last year, much of it serving cash-burning labs OpenAI and Anthropic. Morgan Stanley foresees $2.9 trillion of global data-centre investment between 2025 and 2028, with roughly $900 billion from private credit and asset-backed lending. OpenAI CEO Sam Altman floated infrastructure build-out deals worth $1.4 trillion requiring 30 gigawatts of power, enough for 20 million U.S. households, while HSBC says OpenAI may need $207 billion more by 2030 and almost $280 billion of cash burn between now and then; OpenAI recently announced a $110 billion funding round, with Amazon pledging $50 billion but initially paying about $15 billion and tying more outlays to public-market success or reaching “artificial general intelligence,” and SoftBank expected to add $30 billion while under a negative credit outlook and exploring a bridge loan of up to $40 billion.