Thanks to Trump, Xi Has Time on His Side With Taiwan, February 25, 2026: Ali Wyne argues that the short-term likelihood of a Chinese attack on Taiwan has diminished not because Beijing is weaker but because Xi Jinping thinks Donald Trump will help China pressure Taipei without war. The article recalls Marco Rubio’s January 2025 confirmation-hearing warning that “unless something dramatic changes” in Asia’s military balance, China would attempt to invade Taiwan before the end of the decade, and the House Select Committee on the Chinese Communist Party’s May warning that “the clock is ticking to stop a war in the Indo-Pacific—and this Congress may be America’s last full chance to do it.” It says the PLA remains in turmoil even as China modernizes, while the U.S. and Taiwan are deepening security cooperation and Washington is deploying missile and unmanned systems to the Philippines and nuclear-powered submarines to Australia. Trump, despite approving arms sales, reportedly said in a January 2025 interview that Taiwan is “a source of pride for him [Xi]” and in July 2024 declared Taiwan had stolen the U.S. semiconductor industry and “doesn’t give us anything.” In March 2025 TSMC announced a $100 billion U.S. investment, after which Trump said a Chinese invasion would be “a catastrophic event” but a “very big part” of the company’s business would be in the U.S. The piece says Xi can use China’s rare-earths leverage, and cites their South Korea meeting in October 2025 where Xi told Trump, “Mr. President, you care a lot about world peace, and you are very enthusiastic about settling various regional hot spot issues.” It notes that the leaders reportedly discussed future U.S. arms sales to Taiwan, touching the Reagan administration’s 1982 “six assurances.” In Taipei, Lai Ching-te faces a divided legislature: the KMT and Taiwan People’s Party hold 60 of 113 seats, DPP 51. KMT leader Cheng Li-wun says Taiwan must not become “a sacrifice or Trump’s bargaining chip” or “another Ukraine,” wants to meet Xi early this year ahead of Trump’s scheduled April meeting with Xi, and criticizes Trump’s demand that Taiwan spend 10 percent of GDP on defense versus Lai’s 5 percent target by 2030 and Howard Lutnick’s push to onshore 40 percent of Taiwan’s semiconductor production by the end of Trump’s second term. The article warns about provocations short of invasion, including maritime restrictions, the risk that inexperienced PLA leaders could misread Xi, and triggers such as Taiwanese independence or an explicit U.S. defense commitment; Neil Thomas is quoted calling Xi “a calculated risk-taker rather than a reckless gambler,” and the piece ends that Xi is sticking with incrementalism, as seen in Hong Kong and the South China Sea. ### Fact-checking Trump's State of the Union claims on the economy, immigration and crime, February 25, 2026: This PBS/PolitiFact article says Trump’s combative State of the Union on February 24, 2026 ran about 108 minutes, the longest in modern history, with him boasting inflation is “plummeting,” gas prices are lower, and his immigration crackdown has caused turmoil in Democratic-run cities; he also called on legislators to stand if they agree that “the first duty of the American government is to protect American citizens, not illegal aliens,” drew Republican applause, and told silent Democrats they should be “ashamed of themselves.” Rep. Al Green, D-Texas, was escorted out after holding a sign reading “Black people aren’t apes,” referencing Trump’s Truth Social video depicting Barack and Michelle Obama as apes. Trump introduced the Olympic gold-med