Israel says creating buffer zone in Lebanon, troops seize new positions — AL-Monitor: The Middle Eastʼs leading independent news source since 2012, 2026-03-01: Israel said on Tuesday it was establishing a buffer zone inside Lebanon and ordered its troops to seize additional strategic positions across the border after several projectiles were fired from Lebanese territory into Israel. Defence Minister Israel Katz said, “Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and I have authorised the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) to advance and take control of additional strategic positions in Lebanon in order to prevent attacks on Israeli border communities,” while Brigadier General Effie Defrin said troops were “creating a buffer zone inside Lebanon” and had “moved forward, taken control of the dominating terrain.” The Lebanese army said it redeployed soldiers from several recently established border positions on Tuesday after the Israeli “escalation”; a Lebanese military source said the troops, “numbering in total eight to nine soldiers at each point,” were sent back to bases because of safety risks. Lebanon had been drawn into the regional war a day earlier after an initial rocket attack on Israel by Hezbollah, which said it wanted to “avenge” the killing of Iranian supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei during the US-Israeli strikes. By Tuesday Israel said it had struck more than 160 Hezbollah targets “throughout south Lebanon,” including Radwan Force members, and killed Hezbollah intelligence chief Hussein Muakalled; later it said several projectiles from Lebanon were mostly intercepted. Eyal Zamir said Israel was “determined to eliminate” Hezbollah until it was disarmed. Israel warned it would strike Hezbollah assets in Tyre, home to a UNESCO World Heritage site, and AFPTV reported airstrikes on Beirut’s southern suburbs without prior warning, hitting command centres, weapons storage facilities, and satellite communication components. Hezbollah said it targeted three Israeli military bases in response. An AFP journalist reported a rocket struck a house in the border village of Yuval, lightly injuring one person by glass shrapnel, confirmed by Magen David Adom. Israel said “all options are on table,” denied planning a full-scale ground invasion, and described the seizure of positions as “tactical measures”; Lebanese authorities said the strikes had displaced more than 58,000 people, and Israel remained in five strategic border areas despite a November 2024 ceasefire and a supposed withdrawal obligation. ### After Israel's ultimatum, Lebanon orders arrest of Iran IRGC members — AL-Monitor: The Middle Eastʼs leading independent news source since 2012, 2026-03-01: Lebanon’s General Security Directorate (GSD) announced on March 26 that it was pursuing Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) members, saying the Lebanese government was taking all legal measures against the IRGC presence in Lebanon to “protect national security and sovereignty” and uphold its independence by limiting foreign military and paramilitary influence, especially from Iran. The move came after Israel’s explicit military ultimatum demanding Lebanon limit Iranian operations in its territory and amid Israel’s sustained military campaign in southern Lebanon and the war in Gaza. The article says Iran has long seen Lebanon as a conduit for its regional ambitions and that Hezbollah gives Tehran major political and military influence there; however, Lebanon’s stance had visibly shifted, even as Hezbollah remained powerful. Iran accused Lebanon of unjustly cracking down on its operatives, despite Iranian funerals and military parades in the country. Analysts warned the crackdown could further inflame regional tensions if Tehran views it as a threat to its strategic interests. At the same time, diplomatic discussions between Lebanon and Iran were underway, led by Hezbollah’s political wing, with some seeing ceasefire talks between Israel and Lebanon as a possible window for de-escalation, though