On 2026-02-19, CBS Minnesota’s “Minneapolis day care operator is 79th person charged in Feeding Our Future fraud - CBS Minnesota” reported that Fahima Mahamud was charged last week with one count of wire fraud, making her the “79th such case” in Minnesota’s Feeding Our Future fraud scheme; prosecutors say she operated Future Leaders Early Learning Center in south Minneapolis, falsely claimed at one point to serve “60,000 children monthly,” and used falsifying invoices to justify reimbursement. Court documents say that from December 2020 through July 2021 the center received more than $850,000 from Feeding Our Future but spent only about $125,000 on food; Mahamud notified the Minnesota Department of Children, Youth and Families on Feb. 10 that she planned to close the center, and on Feb. 11 a new center unassociated with her registered to open in the same place. She was scheduled to appear in court Thursday. The article said 78 other people had been charged, with 51 pleading guilty and seven convicted at trial; Aimee Bock, the ringleader, was found guilty last March of conspiracy to commit wire fraud and conspiracy to commit federal programs bribery, has yet to be sentenced, could face up to 33 years in prison, and prosecutors say the scheme bilked the program out of more than $250 million. ### On 2026-02-19, “Kalshi prediction market data earns vote of confidence in Fed paper” said researchers hailed Kalshi’s prediction market data in a new Federal Reserve paper by Anthony M. Diercks of the Fed, Jared Dean Katz of Northwestern University, and Jonathan Wright of the National Bureau of Economic Research, calling prediction markets “a new benchmark for measuring expectations and informing monetary policy decisions.” The paper said Kalshi markets may outperform traditional derivatives and survey forecasts on key economic data: on core inflation and unemployment they performed similarly to Bloomberg consensus, did better on headline inflation, and on Fed rate decisions they had a “perfect forecast record” the day before FOMC meetings, beating fed funds futures forecasts. Kalshi CEO Tarek Mansour called the paper “incredible” on X. The piece noted the American Gaming Association was not immediately commenting, the Coalition for Prediction Markets lacked a spokesperson, and that Europe’s Centre for Economic Policy Research found “favorite–longshot bias” across politics, entertainment and economic contracts, while CFTC chair Mike Selig said the commission would “defend its exclusive jurisdiction over these derivative markets” amid fights over states blocking prediction markets. ### On 2026-02-19, The Verge’s “It’s MAGA v Broligarch in the battle over prediction markets” by Tina Nguyen, published Feb 19, 2026, 1:50 PM UTC, argued the Trump right was splitting over prediction markets as the CFTC on Tuesday filed an amicus brief in the Ninth Circuit opposing state lawsuits against Kalshi, Polymarket, Coinbase and Crypto.com and Michael Selig posted on X, “To those who seek to challenge our authority in this space, let me be clear: we will see you in court.” Utah Gov. Spencer Cox replied on X that prediction markets were “gambling—pure and simple” and vowed litigation, noting Utah’s strict gambling laws and that nearly half the state is Mormon and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints opposes all government-sanctioned gambling. The column also described Anthropic CEO Dario Amodei’s Washington blitz, including a 38-page letter to Congress, an Axios interview, meetings with Sens. Elizabeth Warren and Jim Banks on a bill banning advanced AI chip sales to China, and the Pentagon’s plan to designate Anthropic a “s