CNN on 2026-03-08 reported “Day 8 of Middle East conflict — Trump signals plans to escalate attacks, Iran vows to continue retaliatory strikes,” saying updated 12:26 AM EST, Sun March 8, 2026, with CNN crews in Tehran hearing new bomb blasts Saturday night as the Israel Defense Forces announced a new “wave of strikes”; the Iranian state-affiliated Fars News Agency said US and Israeli bombing targeted an oil refinery in southern Tehran, and CNN saw a large fire near oil and gas installations, while Esfahan residents described “horrible” bombing and said the Israeli military had struck Esfahan, which houses critical Iranian nuclear facilities. The piece said there were blasts in Bahrain, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and Dubai, where debris from intercepted projectiles killed a driver and damaged a high-rise in Marina, and it noted the Trump administration declared an emergency to immediately sell 12,000 BLU-110A/B general purpose, 1,000-pound bomb bodies to Israel, valued at more than $151 million. It reported Iran’s Foreign Minister Abbas Aragchi said a US attack on a desalination plant on Qeshm Island, off Oman, had impacted water supply in 30 villages, Kuwait Petroleum Corporation announced precautionary reductions in crude production, and an unidentified airstrike killed a member of Iraq’s Popular Mobilization Forces and wounded three others. It also said CNN saw “almost complete control” claims from Benjamin Netanyahu, who vowed to strike Iran “with all our might,” and that Trump would attend a dignified transfer at Dover Air Force Base in Delaware for six American service members killed in an Iranian drone strike in Kuwait: Maj. Jeffery O’Brien, Capt. Cody Khork, Chief Warrant Officer 3 Robert Marzan, Sgt. 1st Class Nicole Amor, Sgt. 1st Class Noah Tietjens and Sgt. Declan Coady. The article added that US gas prices rose another 9 cents to $3.41 a gallon, the highest since August 2024, and that HRANA said at least 1,172 civilians, including 194 children, and 176 military members had been killed in Iran since the conflict began, while 294 had been killed in Lebanon since Israel began strikes there on Monday. ### “Iran's foreign minister rejects calls for a ceasefire: 'We need to continue fighting for the sake of our people'” on 2026-03-08 said Abbas Araghchi told NBC News’ “Meet the Press” with Kristen Welker that Iran needed “to continue fighting for the sake of our people” because the US and Israel were “killing our people,” “killing girl students,” and “attacking hospitals,” and that the ceasefire that ended last year’s 12-day war had been shattered, so “we need to continue fighting for the sake of our people and our security.” He said Russia was providing intelligence to Iran on the location of US forces in the Middle East, including information that could help locate American warships, while he described Iran-Russia cooperation as “not something new” and “not a secret”; Mike Waltz said he had “no doubt President Trump will deal with it accordingly” and that the US military was “decimating Iran’s air force, air defenses, navy, ground forces, command and control.” Araghchi said Iran would no longer attack neighboring Gulf nations unless they facilitate US or Israeli attacks, apologizing to Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates and Oman for strikes that killed people there, but insisting Iran was targeting American bases, installations and assets “located in the soils” of neighbors, not attacking them intentionally. He warned that if US ground troops entered Iran, “we have very