After Iran’s salvo hit their skylines, will Gulf states enter the war? | Conflict | Al Jazeera | 2026-03-02: In Doha, Qatar, the piece says Iranian missiles slammed into Gulf capitals and cities over the weekend, shattering the Gulf states’ image as stable “oases” and forcing an “impossible choice” between striking back and being seen as fighting alongside Israel, or staying passive while their cities burn. Former Qatari prime minister and foreign minister Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim bin Jaber Al Thani wrote on X that GCC states “must not be dragged into a direct confrontation with Iran,” while also saying Tehran “violated the sovereignty” of GCC states; he warned the region should act as “a single, unified hand” and not be “picked off one by one.” Doha-based Gulf Times editor-in-chief Faisal Al-Mudahka said, “This is Israel and the US’s war, and it has nothing to do with us,” adding, “We are not war seekers,” and criticizing “the ideology of Netanyahu and the ideology of Iran.” The article says the attacks were retaliation after a massive joint US-Israeli assault that began on Saturday and killed Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and other senior military leaders; a school was hit and at least 148 people were killed in that strike alone. Iran then fired missiles and drones at Israel and US military assets across the Gulf, killing at least three people in the UAE; as of Sunday evening 58 people had been injured there, with other injury totals reported as 16 in Qatar, five in Oman, 32 in Kuwait, and four in Bahrain. Missile fragments or missiles hit landmark buildings and the airport in Dubai, high-rises in Manama, Kuwait’s airport, and smoke was seen in Doha neighborhoods; Saudi Arabia said Iran also struck Riyadh and its eastern region. The UAE recalled its ambassador to Israel. Oman had been mediating indirect talks and its foreign minister Badr Albusaidi said peace was “within reach” after Iran agreed to never stockpile enriched uranium and to dilute existing stockpiles, but the US and Israel attacked hours later. Analysts Monica Marks of NYU Abu Dhabi and Rob Geist Pinfold of King’s College London said the Gulf states had tried hard to stop the war but now face reputational and security dilemmas; Pinfold suggested a likely response would be Gulf-led action, possibly via the Peninsula Shield Force, the GCC’s unified army created in 1984 and evolved into the Unified Military Command in 2013. Marks called strikes on power grids, water desalination plants and energy infrastructure the “real nightmare scenario,” noting that without air conditioning and desalination the Gulf is “essentially uninhabitable”; Al-Mudahka highlighted that 16 percent of the world’s energy comes from Qatar and 33 percent of global oil flows from the wider region through the Strait of Hormuz, warning about “no electricity in Osaka” and oil at “$200 a barrel.” Sheikh Hamad later warned on X that “new forces will emerge in the region” and “Israel will hold sway over our region,” while the article says the crisis marks a shift to state-on-state warfare rather than mostly proxy “grey zone” conflict, and that Gulf states are recalibrating depending on whether Iran offers “a more rational escalatory ladder.” ### Saudi military raises readiness levels after attacks - AL-Monitor: The Middle Eastʼs leading independent news source since 2012 | 2026-03-02: AFP reported on Monday that Saudi Arabia’s military raised its readiness to “full alert” after multiple Iranian attacks, while a source said there could be a military response if oil infrastructure is targeted. The Ras