PBS News Hour, 2026-02-26, “U.S.-Iran talks end without deal, mediator reports progress” | Season 2026 | PBS: In Geneva, the U.S. and Iran concluded a third round of negotiations with “No deal reached” but a mediator said “progress” was made; Iranian officials said “technical talks” would begin on Monday with the UN nuclear watchdog, suggesting possible progress as the United States deployed “the largest military presence to the Middle East in more than 20 years.” Stephanie Sy reported. ### CBS News, 2026-02-26, “Can the U.S. and Iran reach a nuclear deal to avert a war?” - CBS News: Anxiety mounted over possible strikes against Iran as U.S. and Iranian negotiators met in Switzerland brokered by Oman over the Islamic Republic’s nuclear program, with Omani Foreign Minister Badr Albusaidi telling “Face the Nation” on Friday that “substantial progress” had been made and a “peace deal is within our reach,” while President Donald Trump said he was “not happy” with the pace; the story said Iran denies seeking a nuclear weapon, Trump says he will not allow Tehran to acquire one, the Obama administration negotiated the 2015 pact Trump later called “horrible” and quit, and since returning to the White House Trump has threatened to strike Iran, ordered the biggest American military buildup in the Middle East in decades, and had the State Department authorize non-emergency personnel and family members to leave Israel on Friday over unspecified “safety risks.” It quoted Abbas Araghchi saying Iran would “under no circumstances ever develop a nuclear weapon,” while insisting “Enrichment is our right” under the NPT, and said Araghchi reported “differences” but “now an understanding” on some issues, that teams from Iran and the U.S. would work with the IAEA “to develop a framework for addressing some technical issues,” and that “the fourth round of negotiations next week” would follow. It also cited Sanam Vakil of Chatham House saying war looked “imminent,” Masih Alinejad warning a deal leaving enrichment and missiles intact would be a “total failure,” H.R. McMaster predicting any opening campaign would be “extensive, not a ‘signaling’ exercise,” and Omani posts calling the talks “creative and positive ideas.” ### Reuters, 2026-02-26, “US-Iran talks end with no deal but potential signs of progress”: Oman said the U.S. and Iran made progress on Tehran’s nuclear program but ended with no breakthrough amid a massive military buildup and potential U.S. strikes; Sayyid Badr Albusaidi said technical-level talks would resume next week in Vienna after consultations in the capitals, and would meet U.S. Vice President JD Vance and other U.S. officials in Washington on Friday. Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araqchi, in indirect Geneva talks with U.S. envoys Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner, said “We reached agreement on some issues, and there are differences regarding some other issues,” that the next round would be “in less than a week,” and that Tehran demanded lifting U.S. sanctions; Axios quoted a senior U.S. official calling the talks “positive.” Trump had warned on February 19 that Iran must make a deal in 10 to 15 days or face “really bad things,” and Reuters said U.S. forces had amassed near Iran, Trump had deployed fighter jets and aircraft carrier strike groups, and Iran had told President Masoud Pezeshkian that Ayatollah Ali Khamenei banned weapons of mass destruction and thus Tehran would not develop nuclear weapons. ### AP News, 2026-02