Turkey's Africa strategy conflicts with US foreign policy critics claim | Fox News | 2026-02-22: Turkey’s massive military, trade, Islamic diplomacy and education expansion into Africa, some analysts said, is undermining U.S. goals as Ankara capitalizes on wars and conflicts on the continent. Turkey analyst Gönül Tol said at an American Enterprise Institute seminar in Washington last week that Turkey is “capitalizing on all these conflicts in Sudan, in Ethiopia, in Somalia, to strengthen its military presence, its diplomatic and economic engagements,” calling Turkey “one of the top, top weapons providers to Africa” and warning that “if there is more chaos, that will only help Erdogan strengthen his hands.” President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said in October that trade with Africa rose from “$5.4 billion in 2003” to “$41 billion in 2024,” and that Turkish Airlines now flies to “64 African destinations”; he said relations had advanced “hand in hand, shoulder to shoulder, and most importantly, heart-to-heart.” The article said Turkish firms reportedly sold drones to both sides in Sudan’s three-year war, including the Sudanese Armed Forces (SAF) and the Rapid Support Forces (RSF), which U.S. policy opposes because it would prolong the fighting; a State Department spokesperson said the U.S. is working “with allies and others to bring an end to external military support to the parties, which is fueling the violence.” FDD analyst Mariam Wahba said Turkish drones are “cost-effective and politically low-friction alternatives to U.S. or European systems,” and claimed Ankara’s approach shows “access and influence take precedence over stability, civilian protection or alignment with Western policy objectives.” A 2025 FDD report by Sinan Ciddi said “The deal between Baykar and SAF is worth $120 million, resulting in the sale of six TB2 drones, three ground control stations, and 600 warheads,” and said it took place after U.S. sanctions; the TB2 is said to be made by a company owned by Erdogan’s son-in-law and is “one-sixth the cost of a U.S. Reaper drone,” with Africa Command’s Africa Defense Forum saying drone systems typically cost “between $2 million and $5 million per aircraft” and full packages can reach “$5–$15 million per system.” Turkey’s embassies in Africa increased from “12 in 2002” to “44 today,” and Wahba said Turkish Airlines’ expansion mirrors Ankara’s security priorities and acts as a “soft-power and access enabler” for a “neo-Ottoman foreign policy” in the Sahel that backs Islamist movements such as Hamas and the Muslim Brotherhood. ### Xi Gains Leverage Before Trump Summit After Tariff Reversal - Bloomberg | 2026-02-22: Chinese President Xi Jinping was said to be heading to talks with Donald Trump with a boost in bargaining power after the U.S. leader “lost his ability to quickly raise tariffs for nearly any reason,” shifting the leverage dynamic ahead of their summit. ### Gilead Sciences to Acquire Arcellx to Maximize Long-Term Potential of Anito-cel – Company Announcement - FT.com | 2026-02-22: Gilead Sciences Inc and Arcellx Inc announced a definitive agreement, dated “Feb. 23 2026 11:01 GMT,” under which Gilead will acquire Arcellx for “$115 per share in cash” plus “one contingent value right of $5 per share,” implying equity value of “$7.8 billion.” The deal builds on a 2022 collaboration around anito-cel, an investigational BCMA-directed CAR T-cell therapy for adults with relapsed/refr