2026-02-28, With US pressure rising, Iran agrees to 'never, ever have nuclear material, Oman mediator says - The Times of India: after several rounds of indirect talks mediated by Oman and described by Badr Albusaidi as involving “Muslim nations,” Iran’s foreign minister said Tehran agreed it would “never, ever have … nuclear material” capable of producing a bomb; Albusaidi told CBS News negotiators had made “substantial progress,” that a “peace deal is within our reach,” and that any accord would require “zero accumulation, zero stockpiling, and full verification.” He said Iran’s existing enriched-uranium stockpiles would be blended down to the lowest enrichment levels and converted into nuclear fuel in an irreversible way, with International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors getting full access to nuclear facilities, and possibly even American inspectors later if a fair, durable deal is secured. The remarks came as Donald Trump said he was “not happy” with the pace after talks in Geneva ended without a breakthrough, warned “They cannot have nuclear weapons,” said Iranian negotiators “don’t want to quite go far enough,” and declined to say how close he was to ordering a strike, adding “when there’s war, there’s a risk of anything”; Marco Rubio was due to visit Israel and the UN urged both sides to stay on the diplomatic track even as military assets built up in the Middle East. ### 2026-02-28, Iran agreed to 'zero stockpiling' of nuclear material in US talks: Omani FM: Oman’s foreign minister Badr al-Busaidi, mediating between U.S. and Iranian officials in Geneva, said Iran was offering to give up stockpiling enriched uranium, emphasizing “zero stockpiling” because if enriched material cannot be stockpiled “there is no way you can actually create a bomb.” He said Iran currently holds “between 300 and 400 kilograms of 60 percent enriched uranium,” that likely International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors could inspect sites “at places like Isfahan” and inspect the stockpiles, and that if there is a deal the uranium would be “downblended to the lowest level possible,” “converted into fuel,” and made “irreversible.” Trump said the U.S. had not made a final decision, was “not exactly happy with the way they’re negotiating,” and warned of possible strikes while massing a major military contingent in the Middle East. ### 2026-02-28, Peace ‘within reach’ as Iran agrees no nuclear material stockpile: Oman FM | Military News | Al Jazeera: after Oman brokered the third round of indirect talks between the U.S. and Iran in Geneva on Thursday, Foreign Minister Badr bin Hamad Al Busaidi told CBS News in Washington, DC, that Iran agreed never to stockpile enriched uranium and that a “peace deal is within our reach” if diplomacy is given space; he said all issues could be resolved “amicably and comprehensively” within a few months, that the “single most important achievement” was the agreement that Iran will “never ever have nuclear material that will create a bomb,” and that there would be “full and comprehensive verification by the IAEA [International Atomic Energy Agency].” He added Iran would degrade current stockpiles to “the lowest level possible” so they are “converted into fuel, and that fuel will be irreversible,” and said “I believe Iran is open to discuss everything,” including missile issues. He hoped the talks had covered enough ground to hold off a U.S. attack, said “we have really advanced substantially,” and noted the U.S. and Iranian sides were expected to meet again on Monday in Vienna, Austria; he also met US Vice President JD