Trump seeks to delay meeting with China's Xi by 'a month or so' | Reuters | 2026-03-16: In Washington on March 16, U.S. President Donald Trump said, “We've requested that we delay it a month or so,” referring to his scheduled March 31-April 2, 2026 trip to China to meet Chinese President Xi Jinping, saying the reason was the Iran war. The request could deepen tensions between Washington and Beijing over trade, Taiwan, and the Mideast crisis. China’s embassy in Washington did not immediately comment. Trump has also pressed China to help ships safely transit the Strait of Hormuz, where one-fifth of the world’s oil transits daily, after joint U.S.-Israeli attacks on Iran; he told the Financial Times on Sunday he might postpone the Xi meeting if China did not help unblock the strait. Karoline Leavitt said the dates “may be moved” and that Epic Fury was Trump’s “number-one priority,” while Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said Trump may need to stay in DC to coordinate the war effort and that “Traveling abroad at a time like this may not be optimal.” Bessent was in Paris talking with Chinese Vice Premier He Lifeng on trade and possible additional Chinese purchases of U.S. agricultural goods including poultry, beef and non-soybean row crops, plus rare earth minerals and investment rules; both sides were still communicating, said Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Lin Jian. China imported around 12 million barrels of oil daily in the first two months of 2026, most in the world, and most of Iran’s oil exports go to China.### Socialists Lead Paris Mayoral Race, Gregoire Tops First Round Vote - Bloomberg | 2026-03-16: Published March 16, 2026, this Bloomberg item said Socialist candidate Emmanuel Gregoire topped the first round of the Paris mayoral election on Sunday, March 15, with about 38% of the vote, according to interior ministry results, setting up a high-stakes runoff on March 22, 2026. The article said the left seeks to extend its quarter-century rule over the French capital.### Race for Paris mayor on knife's edge after first round | 2026-03-16: AFP reported on March 16 that Paris’s mayoral race hung in the balance after the first round, with former France culture minister Rachida Dati seeking to win the capital for the right for the first time in 25 years and become Paris’s second woman mayor in a row. Socialist former deputy mayor Emmanuel Gregoire led with 37.98% to Dati’s 25.46%; Sophia Chikirou got 11.72%, Pierre-Yves Bournazel 11.34%, and Sarah Knafo 10.40%, sending all three to the second round next Sunday. Gregoire promised to continue outgoing Socialist mayor Anne Hidalgo’s legacy, including more bike lanes, green spaces and better public housing in the city of two million, while Dati vowed cleaner, safer streets, better rubbish collection, weapons for municipal police officers and more video surveillance. Dati claimed on X she had teamed up with centre-right Bournazel, but his team said nothing had been decided and he wanted her to reject any far-right alliance with Knafo, who had offered to back her; President Emmanuel Macron had approved a Dati-Bournazel partnership, according to an Elysee source. Gregoire, 48, refused to ally with hard-left France Unbowed (LFI) and Chikirou said on X she would stay in the race unless Gregoire called her to “block Dati's path in Paris.” Hidalgo urged the left to rally around