Why are the U.S. and Israel attacking Iran? : NPR, 2026-02-28, reported that the U.S. and Israel attacked Iran on Saturday after weeks of threats from President Trump over Iran's nuclear capabilities; Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei was killed in Israeli strikes carried out with U.S. support, and Iranian state media confirmed his death while also saying his daughter and grandchild were killed. Israel said top Iranian security officials were among the dead, including the country's defense minister, the commander of the Revolutionary Guard Corps, and the secretary of the Iranian Security Council, a close adviser to Khamenei. Benjamin Netanyahu said the goal was to "remove the existential threat posed by the terrorist regime in Iran" and that the action would create conditions for the Iranian people to "take their destiny into their own hands"; a person briefed on the operation said it was expected to last a few days and focus on Iran's missile program. Trump announced "major combat operations" that were "massive and ongoing" in a 2:30 a.m. ET Truth Social video, saying the objective was to "defend the American people by eliminating imminent threats"; the week’s indirect talks between Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner failed Thursday, and Trump later confirmed Khamenei's death, saying the bombing would continue "uninterrupted throughout the week or, as long as necessary to achieve our objective of PEACE THROUGHOUT THE MIDDLE EAST AND, INDEED, THE WORLD!" Iran's news agency IRNA said a girls school was hit, killing at least 53 young female students, while the Iranian Red Crescent said more than 200 were killed across Iran; Capt. Tim Hawkins of U.S. Central Command said, "Unlike Iran, we have never — and will never — target civilians." Trump urged Iranians to "take over your government. It will be yours to take. This will probably be your only chance for generations." Iran's foreign ministry called the strikes a "gross violation" of sovereignty and vowed to respond, and Iran then launched ballistic missiles at Qatar, UAE, Bahrain, Kuwait and Jordan, all of which host U.S. troops, with Bahrain saying the U.S. Navy's Fifth Fleet service center in Manama was hit and the UAE saying debris from interception killed an Asian migrant worker; loud booms were heard over Dubai. ### Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, has been killed, 2026-02-28, said Khamenei, 86, was killed in a U.S.-Israeli operation and that the Iranian government announced 40 days of mourning. The piece, heard on Weekend Edition Saturday, described smoke rising over Tehran, noted the attack began after sunrise, and said Iranian state media reported a girls' primary school in southern Iran was hit, killing at least 85 children, while the Iranian Red Crescent said more than 200 died. Trump said Khamenei could not avoid U.S. intelligence and surveillance, and the article described the Pentagon's "Epic Fury" and Israel's "Roaring Lion," with U.S. and Israeli military coordination and Israeli officials saying about 200 fighter jets hit about 500 targets in western and central Iran. It also said Iran retaliated with missiles and drones across the region, prompting air raid sirens in Israel and strikes in Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Qatar, Bahrain and Kuwait, while Jordan said it downed 49 drones and ballistic missiles; Trump told the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps to "Lay down your arms. You will be treated fairly with total immunity, or you will face certain death," and told Iranians, "When we are finished, take over your government. It will be yours to take. This will be,