DHS shutdown drags into week two as Iran threat, SOTU clash complicate Hill talks | Published February 23, 2026 | Fox News: By Alex Miller, the article says the partial government shutdown over funding the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) had dragged into its 10th day, with Senate Democrats and the White House still at odds and neither side budging since the last concrete action early last week. White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt said Donald Trump had had no "direct conversations or correspondence" with congressional Democrats recently and blamed Democrats for shutting DHS "for political reasons"; she called Senate Democrats’ counterproposal "unserious." Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., was said not to have relented, while Senate Majority Leader John Thune, R-S.D., told Fox News Digital there was "some room for give and take" but that Republicans would not accept Democrats’ demands that Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents get judicial warrants, unmasking, and other reforms that would increase risks for agents. Thune called the White House’s last offer a "good faith one" aimed at getting DHS funded. Winter storms on the East Coast delayed a Senate vote on the original DHS spending bill until Tuesday night, ahead of Trump’s State of the Union address. The story said Trump had helped secure a January truce with Schumer but was not directly involved in the February talks; there were also possible distractions from a conflict with Iran and Trump’s desire to move ahead with global 10% tariffs after the Supreme Court struck down his sweeping duties. Trump said Friday he was "considering" a limited military strike against Iran, prompting Sen. Tim Kaine, D-Va., to say he had a war powers resolution ready and to challenge colleagues to vote against it if they supported war, saying they should not be "hiding under their desks." A Republican aide said the GOP was "waiting to see what POTUS does next," and another said, "The State of the Union should be interesting." ### Where the DHS shutdown could start to hurt | Feb 23rd 2026|WASHINGTON, DC|4 min read: this piece noted that Donald Trump would deliver his state-of-the-union speech on February 24th in “unusual circumstances” because America was amassing a huge military force in the Middle East as he contemplated an attack on Iran, the Supreme Court had just struck down his signature tariff policy, and DHS—described as overseeing “airport security and drug busts”—had been shut down since February 14th after lawmakers failed to agree on a funding deal; it would be the first state-of-the-union address delivered with part of the government closed, and public outcry so far had been limited. ### Somalia Offers US Access to Military Bases, Critical Minerals - Bloomberg | February 23, 2026 at 9:25 AM UTC: Somalia offered to renew a deal allowing the US access to its ports and airports for military purposes, countering a similar proposal by the breakaway region of Somaliland. Ali Mohamed Omar Balcad, Somalia’s state minister for foreign affairs, said the country had a "longstanding cooperation framework," including a 1980 agreement on port and airport access for US military purposes, and that the federal government had "recently offered to renew that agreement," which remained the "appropriate and lawful channel" for security cooperation. ### Trump mulls targeted strike on Iran, followed by larger attack;  Negotiators to meet Thursday forlast-ditch talks - The Times of India: in Washington, the article said Trump told advisers he would consider a much bigger attack on Iran if diplomacy or an initial targeted US strike did not get Tehran to give up its nuclear program, with the