On 2026-03-04, in Ken Paxton, John Cornyn Head to Runoff in Texas GOP Senate Primary - Newsweek, Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton and U.S. Senator John Cornyn were projected by the Associated Press to advance to a May runoff in the Texas Republican U.S. Senate primary after neither candidate reached the more than 50 percent threshold under Texas law; the three-way field also included U.S. Representative Wesley Hunt. The article said the race had become a test of the GOP’s direction in Texas, where Republicans have not lost a statewide federal race in more than three decades, and noted tens of millions of dollars in TV, digital ads and mail, with a RealClearPolling average showing Paxton at 37.3 percent and Cornyn at 35 percent, an Emerson College survey putting Paxton ahead by 4 points, Polymarket pricing Paxton at 82 percent to Cornyn’s 17 percent, and Kalshi showing Paxton’s “Yes” shares at 82 cents versus Cornyn’s 18 cents. Paxton’s side emphasized his attorney general record and alignment with President Donald Trump, while Cornyn’s allies spent more than $50 million on advertising focused in part on Paxton’s 2023 impeachment. Steve Bannon told Politico’s Playbook, “My belief is the Trump team should have stayed out of this race. Absolutely.” and Trump said on February 16, “They’ve all supported me, they’re all good, and you’re supposed to pick one. We’ll see what happens, but I support all three.” D. Stephen Voss of the University of Kentucky said Trump won Texas in 2024 by more than 13 percentage points and that Texans last elected a Democrat to the U.S. Senate “since the Eighties.” ### On 2026-03-04, in James Talarico wins Texas Democratic Senate primary as John Cornyn and Ken Paxton go to a GOP runoff, NBC News projected State Rep. James Talarico had won the Democratic Senate nomination over U.S. Rep. Jasmine Crockett, with 83% of the expected vote in and Talarico leading 53 percent to 46 percent; he said, “We’re about to take back Texas,” while Crockett conceded and urged Democrats to unite. The piece said the party was searching for its first statewide win in Texas in more than 30 years, described Talarico as a Presbyterian seminarian with a populist message and a 2024-style pitch to Democrats, Republicans and independents, and noted his Stephen Colbert interview aired on YouTube instead of CBS amid fear of FCC blowback, helping fundraising. It also detailed voting confusion in Dallas County, the second-most-populous county in the state and Crockett’s congressional home, where new Republican-led rules sent some voters to the wrong polling places; a Dallas County judge ordered polling places open two hours later, but the Texas Supreme Court temporarily blocked that, leaving ballots cast after 7 p.m. local time in limbo, and a similar issue happened in Williamson County, Talarico’s home turf. On the GOP side, Cornyn and Paxton were projected to advance to a May 26 runoff, with 84% of the expected vote showing Cornyn at 42 percent, Paxton at 41 percent and Hunt at 13 percent; the campaign had drawn nearly $100 million in advertising, including $78.5 million by Cornyn and his allies, $4.4 million by Paxton and his outside groups, and $12.2 million by Hunt and his super PACs. Cornyn warned Paxton could put the seat at risk because of his 2023 impeachment on bribery and corruption allegations and his