CNBC Exclusive: Transcript: Paramount Skydance CEO David Ellison Speaks with CNBC’s “Squawk on the Street” Today | 2026-03-05: David Ellison, Chairman and CEO of Paramount Skydance in Los Angeles on the Paramount lot with Julia Boorstin and David Faber, defended the historic merger with Warner Brothers Discovery and said Paramount was paying "63 percent more" than the September offer because combining Paramount and Warner would create a "pro-competitive, pro-consumer" media giant with a 15,000-film library spanning Harry Potter, the D.C. Universe, Mission Impossible, Top Gun, and The Godfather, and a streaming base of over 200 million gross subscribers once Paramount+ and HBO Max are joined. He said the post-close company will have "$79 billion in debt" but also "over $10 billion in cash flow," "$69 billion of revenue" and "$18 billion of EBITDA" on a synergized basis, with "4.3 times levered at close" and " $6 billion in synergies"—not the "16" some reports had cited—plus a path back to investment grade within "three years after closing." Ellison said the merged company will spend more on content than peers, make "30 movies a year," rationalize tech stacks, cloud, real estate, and procurement, and keep both iconic lots, saying "We are not going to sell either lot." He said the company had originally estimated only "$50 to $100 million" in procurement savings, but the reality was "well in excess of five times that." On linear TV, he said CBS remains an "incredible reach asset," the company has "eight of the top ten shows on broadcast," had "the best year we’ve ever had in the history of the NFL in terms of viewership," and cited successful Taylor Sheridan universe launches "Marshals" and "Tracker"; he said the plan assumes continued cable declines and that iconic brands from Paramount and Warner Brothers will move to streaming. He declined to predict NFL contract increases, but said the relationship is "one of our most important partnerships" even if costs rise by "as much as a 50 percent increase." On regulation, Ellison said the HSR waiting period had expired, approvals were already received in "Germany and Slovenia," and the company had met regulators in the E.U., LatAm, and with both Democratic and Republican state A.G.s; he said nothing in the transaction trips cause for concern and emphasized job creation, noting Paramount had greenlit "11 movies," doubled the film slate, moved from "eight movies on the release calendar" to "16 movies this year," increased the P Plus content budget by "over $1.5 billion," and added original series. He said CNN and CBS News would be transitioned to streaming while preserving editorial independence, that A.I. is a "tool for artists" and "a force multiplier" rather than a replacement for human creativity, and that the goal is to serve the "70 percent of Americans" who identify as center-left or center-right and remain in the "truth business" and "trust business." He also said the price per share, set by Paramount independent directors working with third parties, was "$16.20" and that his group is putting up "$47 billion" in equity, with the combined Paramount+ and HBO Max service expected to be "a little bit under 200 million subscribers" versus Disney’s "195 million," and featuring "Yellowstone" and "Game of Thrones" together. ### OpenAI launches GPT-5.4, its most powerful model for enterprise work | Fortune | March 5, 2026, 1:10 PM ET: Beatrice Nolan reported that OpenAI released