Thirty-six thousand municipalities across France, from major cities to tiny hamlets, will choose their mayor today in a two-round election as the rise of far-right movements reshapes politics in Paris and beyond, in “Mayoral elections across France reflect the rise of the far-right : NPR” published 2026-03-15. NPR’s Eleanor Beardsley reports from Paris’ well-heeled 7th arrondissement, where retiree Edith Daubert said the city had been ruined by “25 years of leftist green rule,” citing bike lanes, car evictions, crime, insecurity and public housing; she backs Sarah Knafo, the 32-year-old l’ENA graduate and first-time candidate for the anti-immigration Reconquete party, whose slogan is “a happy city” meaning housing, safety, a place to start a family, and lower taxes. Supporter Abraham Ben Fredj said Reconquete is not racist but favors assimilation. Political analyst Jean-Yves Camus said Reconquete is the harder-line party on immigration, while Marine Le Pen’s Rassemblement National appeals mainly to the lower and working classes with more socialist economics; outside affluent Paris, RN is surging and poised to take Nice, Marseille and Toulon, and Camus noted that winning several small cities can mean controlling an entire area. The far left hoped to win towns in the north but was damaged by Jean-Luc Melenchon, whose February rally comments about Jeffrey Epstein’s name were seen as antisemitic; France’s Jewish community has flocked to Reconquete, seen by Camus as the only party that will protect them. In Paris, the Socialist-Green coalition led, Rachida Dati was close second, and polls said Dati could win if she allied with Knafo for the March 22 runoff, though Dati has refused; critics say the far right could be kingmaker for the first time. ### “Invasion of Lebanon looms - ABC listen” published 2026-03-15 says Israel is reportedly preparing a ground invasion in southern Lebanon targeting the Iranian-backed militant group Hezbollah. ### In “Israel and Lebanon expected to hold talks soon, Israeli officials say - AL-Monitor: The Middle Eastʼs leading independent news source since 2012” published 2026-03-15, two Israeli officials said Israel and Lebanon are expected to hold talks in coming days to secure a durable ceasefire that would see Hezbollah disarmed, though timing and terms are unsettled; Beirut is forming a delegation but has set no date, and Lebanon wants clarity on whether Israel will accept President Joseph Aoun’s first point, a full ceasefire. The talks were first reported by Haaretz on Saturday, March 14, 2026. Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu’s confidante Ron Dermer, formerly minister of strategic affairs, is leading the talks for Israel, with France involved; Army Radio said he visited Saudi Arabia last week to discuss them once the campaign against Hezbollah is exhausted. Foreign Minister Gideon Saar denied talks were underway, Netanyahu’s office did not respond, and Lebanon said it had not received official notification. Lebanon entered the war on March 2 when Hezbollah opened fire at Israel, saying it aimed to avenge the killing of Iran’s supreme leader; Israel’s offensive has killed more than 800 people in Lebanon and forced more than 800,000 from their homes. Lebanon this month banned Hezbollah’s military activities, but the group rejected the move and kept firing hundreds of rockets at Israel; an Israeli official told Reuters the campaign would likely be intensified even after strikes on Iran die down. ### “Israel says it is prepared for at least three more weeks of war | Semafor” published 2026-03-15 says Israel told Sunday it has enough air