After major restructuring, Ubisoft CEO Yves Guillemot says multiple Far Cry and Assassin's Creed games are in development: 'We have a solid...' - The Times of India, 2026-02-23: after Ubisoft’s recent restructuring into five “creative houses,” including the Tencent-backed subsidiary Vantage Studios, CEO and co-founder Yves Guillemot told Variety that “We have a solid pipeline underway across Vantage Studios”; under Assassin's Creed, “several titles are in development, spanning both single-player and multiplayer experiences,” with a community that “exceeded 30 million players last year,” and on Far Cry he said “we currently have two very promising projects in development.” The article says rumors now effectively confirm two Far Cry projects: Project Blackbird, expected to be the next mainline Far Cry entry with a “non-linear” story about the kidnapping of the protagonist’s family, unfolding over 72 in-game hours, roughly 24 hours in real time, and Project Maverick, a standalone multiplayer extraction-based shooter set in “the Alaskan wilderness,” with rumored mechanics like “permadeath, a backpack system, contracts, and more.” It also notes known Assassin’s Creed projects such as Project Hexe and a Black Flag remake, plus a reported Insider Gaming claim that Ubisoft canceled two planned Assassin’s Creed titles including Assassin’s Creed Singularity, a PC and mobile virtual trading card game using Web3 and blockchain elements. Elsewhere, Ubisoft is developing a Far Cry anthology series with It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia’s Rob McElhenney and Alien Earth creator Noah Hawley; McElhenney, also known as Mac from Mythic Quest, is expected to star. Separately, Ubisoft confirmed layoffs affecting “40 developers” at the studio working on the Splinter Cell remake, while saying development continues. ### SAP offered $600M for supply chain visibility platform FourKites, 2026-02-23: Axios Pro reported SAP had offered “$600 million” to acquire PE-backed FourKites “over a year ago.” FourKites is described as a “supply chain visibility provider,” and the article says the broader context is that “end-to-end visibility and process automation have emerged as critical requirements for global supply chains.” ### Paramount submits higher offer for Warner Bros Discovery in bid to block Netflix, source says, 2026-02-23: Reuters said Paramount Skydance (PSKY.O) submitted a higher offer for Warner Bros Discovery (WBD.O), ratcheting up a bidding war over one of Hollywood’s most coveted assets, including “Harry Potter” and “Game of Thrones.” The new bid improves Paramount’s initial February 10 offer of “$108.4 billion, or $30 per share,” seeking to address Warner Bros’ concern about financing certainty; Warner Bros’ chosen suitor Netflix offered “$27.75 per share in cash, or $82.7 billion,” and can match the latest bid. Variety reported Warner Bros was likely to review Paramount’s offer while still recommending the Netflix pact. Paramount’s bid is backed by Oracle billionaire Larry Ellison, while Warner Bros came under pressure from activist investor Ancora Holdings, which built a “roughly $200 million stake” and threatened to vote against the Netflix deal if talks with Paramount do not resume. Warner Bros set a seven-day deadline until “February 23” for a revised offer, and analysts at MoffettNathanson had said “$34 per share” could end the war. The piece says Warner Bros plans to spin off cable assets such as CNN and HGTV into Discovery Global, estimated at “between $1.33 and $6.86 a share,” while Paramount says the spinoff is effectively worthless; the board’s vote on the Netflix