US and Israel attack Iran — as it happened | 2026-02-28: The Sunday Times live updates said that after confirming the death of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran threatened a ‘regret-inducing punishment’ and Trump responded that it ‘better not’. The piece reported the joint US-Israeli strikes on Iran, with Israel saying Khamenei, 86, died when multiple bombs hit his compound in the Pasteur Street district of central Tehran, and Trump later said on Truth Social that “Khamenei, one of the most evil people in History, is dead” and warned the bombing would continue “throughout the week or, as long as necessary.” Iran’s Revolutionary Guard said “a severe, decisive and regret-inducing punishment” was coming “in just moments,” while the Israeli military mobilised about 20,000 reservists, resumed strikes in Tehran, and said it had hit “regime targets.” Iran’s Red Crescent said 201 people had been killed and 747 injured across 24 provinces; other reports in the live blog said a girls’ school in Minab, southern Iran, was hit, and Iran’s judiciary said Ali Shamkhani and General Mohammad Pakpour were dead, with Gholamreza Rezaian also reported among the dead. The live updates tracked retaliatory fire across the Middle East, including explosions over Dubai, Doha, Bahrain, Iraq and Israel, fires at Dubai’s Burj Al Arab, Dubai International Airport and Jebel Ali port, two drones hitting the Port of Duqm in Oman, and a fire in Qatar caused by falling shrapnel; the UAE said it intercepted 137 ballistic missiles and 194 drones, and one person was killed at Abu Dhabi’s Zayed International Airport while another died in Dubai-linked attacks. The article also noted protests at US embassies and consulates in Baghdad, Karachi, Lahore and Skardu, China telling citizens in Iran and Israel to leave, Britain saying its planes were in “co-ordinated regional defensive operation,” and Iran forming an interim leadership council made up of the president, the head of the judiciary and a Guardian Council jurist. ### Watch: Trump’s full statement on U.S. strikes against Iran - CBS News | 2026-02-28: CBS News published Trump’s early-Saturday statement describing “a massive and ongoing operation to prevent this very wicked, radical dictatorship from threatening America and our core national security interests,” calling Iran a dictatorship and saying the operation was meant to stop it threatening America and “core national security interests.” ### Trump announces beginning of 'major combat operations in Iran' | 2026-02-28: Trump’s Truth Social video confirmed the start of “major combat operations” in Iran and repeated that “they can never have a nuclear weapon.” ### Read Trump's full statement on Iran attacks | PBS News | 2026-02-28: PBS News printed Trump’s 8-minute Truth Social speech saying the U.S. had begun “major combat operations in Iran,” that the objective was to eliminate “imminent threats,” and that after “47 years” of “Death to America” Iran had backed hostage-taking at the U.S. Embassy in Tehran for “444 days,” the 1983 Beirut barracks bombing that killed 241 Americans, attacks on the USS Cole, and proxy warfare in Lebanon, Yemen, Syria and Iraq; he claimed Operation Midnight Hammer last June obliterated Fordo, Natanz and Isfahan, said Hamas’ Oct. 7 attacks killed “more than 1,000” innocent people including 46 Americans and took 12 hostages, urged the IRGC and police to lay down arms for “complete immunity” or face “certain death,” and told Iranians to