The war that never ended: Israel seizes moment to finish fight against Hezbollah, Iran’s proxy in Lebanon | CNN, published Mar 13, 2026, 12:00 AM ET and updated Mar 13, 2026, 6:31 AM ET, says Israel was quietly finalizing plans in early January for a wide-scale operation along its northern border more than a year after the US-brokered ceasefire that followed the November 2024 deal in which Lebanon had committed to disarm Hezbollah; after massive anti-regime protests in Iran, Israel refocused on Iran, and on March 2, 2026, shortly after coordinated US-Israeli strikes on Iran, Hezbollah fired six rockets into northern Israel, which Maj. Gen. Rafi Milo of Israel’s Northern Command called a “strategic ambush” and a “serious mistake.” Israel then launched successive waves of strikes across Lebanon against senior Hezbollah operatives, command infrastructure, weapons depots, missile launchers and military training facilities, issued dozens of evacuation warnings, and displaced hundreds of thousands of Lebanese civilians northward past the Litani River; Lebanon’s health ministry said Wednesday that more than 680 people had been killed. Israel had already seized five strategic points in southern Lebanon after the November 2024 ceasefire and in recent days advanced more than one kilometer deeper, calling it a “forward defense” buffer zone. President Joseph Aoun condemned Israel’s advance as showing “no respect for the laws of war,” while also accusing Hezbollah of betraying Lebanon and banning its military activities. The article says Hezbollah had been fueled by $1 billion a year from Iran for two decades, that the IDF believed it still retained as much as a third of its pre-war missile stockpile, including precision weapons with 8-10 kilometer (5-6 mile) range, anti-tank missiles and an active drone program, and that on Wednesday evening Hezbollah launched more than 100 rockets in a single barrage; two Israeli soldiers were killed and at least 14 wounded in southern Lebanon. Israeli officials said the 2024 ceasefire did not stop Hezbollah from rebuilding, described the Lebanon campaign as an “opportunity,” and said “Israel wants to finish the job in Lebanon,” while Likud lawmaker Amit Halevi argued the Litani River, “some six miles into southern Lebanon,” “must become the north’s new Yellow Line.” ### The US-Israel war with Iran has entered a third week. Here’s what we know | CNN, updated Mar 14, 2026, 11:54 AM ET and published Mar 13, 2026, 11:20 PM ET, says that on day 15 Iran’s military warned it could target ports and docks in the United Arab Emirates after a US strike on Kharg Island, a Persian Gulf oil-export hub, while smoke later rose from a major UAE oil hub after a drone attack and fire. The Pentagon is deploying a Marine Expeditionary Unit, typically around 2,500 Marines and sailors, to the Middle East, and global oil markets are under strain: Brent crude was at $101.18 a barrel, the highest since July 2022. The article says Iran allowed two Indian tankers carrying liquid petroleum gas through the Strait of Hormuz, while a senior Iranian official said Tehran was considering allowing some vessels to pass if cargo is traded in Chinese yuan; Trump said he believed the US Navy would “soon” help ships through, though the Energy Secretary said the navy was not yet capable. Two drones struck the US Embassy in Baghdad, where smoke and flames were seen near the compound. In Lebanon, Israeli strikes killed nine people from the same family, including four children, and another strike on a healthcare center killed at least 12 medical staff