US ambassador urges Portugal to buy F-35s, join top-tier air forces | 2026-02-23: In Lisbon, Reuters reported that U.S. ambassador John Arrigo urged Portugal to replace its ageing F-16 fighter jets with Lockheed Martin’s F-35, calling it “the best fighter” and “a fifth-generation stealth fighter” that would put the Portuguese Air Force into “the Champions League when it comes to the EU.” Speaking to CNN Portugal late on Sunday, Arrigo said he wanted to help Portugal raise defence spending to NATO’s target of 5% of gross domestic product by 2035 from the current 2%. He said “more than 900” F-35s were already in service or on order across Europe, that “25%” of the plane was made with European parts, and that for “interoperability, the F-35 is definitely the way to go.” He noted Portuguese Defence Minister Nuno Melo said in November the fighter replacement selection process “had not yet started.” Arrigo also said the Trump administration was not pushing Portugal to choose between Washington and Beijing or decouple from China, but instead promoted “de-risking” via cybersecurity and investment screening. He linked that to Chinese investment expanded after Portugal’s 2011-14 bailout, noting the country received a “78 billion euro bailout in May 2011” from the EU, IMF and ECB, agreed to austerity, and today has stakes such as China Three Gorges’ 21.4% of EDP, China State Grid’s 25% of REN, and Fosun’s 20% of Millennium BCP and 85% of Fidelidade. He said the U.S. is Portugal’s “best partner” but wants any adversary “at arm’s length,” and argued Lisbon’s partnership with the U.S. would “flourish” if Portugal exited China’s Belt and Road Initiative, which it joined in December 2018, as Italy did in 2023. ### Bloomberg UK | 2026-02-23: Markets WrapStocks Climb as Traders Look to Nvidia for AI News said Wall Street traders bracing for Nvidia’s results drove stocks higher, hoping for evidence that the outlook for AI remains intact, with Nvidia the focal company and the anticipated results seen as a test of the AI trade. ### The Washington Post - Breaking news and latest headlines, U.S. news, world news, and video | 2026-02-23: The Post’s roundup on the political stakes of military action said “The midterm elections and a growing battle over the party’s post-Trump identity heighten the political stakes of military action,” and highlighted a January debate between Rep. Jasmine Crockett (D-Texas) and state Rep. James Talarico in which Latino voters will probably decide the primary contest; it also noted Trump’s name was added to the Kennedy Center facade on Dec. 19, 2025, amid a long list of groups and artists backing out, including Philip Glass, Renée Fleming and Béla Fleck. Other items said the 184-year-old Cleveland Plain Dealer’s top editor pushing to let AI draft news articles is boosting traffic and spooking staffers, western warmth made the meteorological winter preliminarily the second-warmest on record for the contiguous United States, New York could get more snow Sunday after a blizzard, Yosemite National Park is dropping reservation systems amid overcrowding concerns, Democrats plan to summon Trump to testify and launch probes if they take the chamber after the midterms, and a White House Black History Month event marked the centennial of what became Black History Month as a microcosm of Trump’s views on race and progress. ### Current price of gold: February 23