CNN Politics, “CIA closely watched Khamenei for months before fatal strikes in Iran,” 2026-03-01: for months Israeli and American intelligence, including the CIA, secretly tracked Iran’s Ayatollah Ali Seyyed Ali Khamenei’s daily patterns, communications, home, and meetings, along with senior leaders, until they spotted a Saturday morning gathering at a Tehran compound housing the ayatollah’s offices, the presidency, and national security apparatus. Israeli Chief of Staff Eyal Zamir wrote pilots, “On Saturday at dawn, Operation Roaring Lion begins,” and around 6 a.m. in Israel warplanes fired the opening salvo in coordinated US-Israeli strikes using highly accurate munitions and long-range missiles; three sites were hit simultaneously, and hours later Donald Trump announced Khamenei was dead. The story names attendees including defense minister Aziz Nasirzadeh, Adm. Ali Shamkhani, Mohammad Shirazi, IRGC commander in chief Mohammad Pakpour, and Aerospace Force commander Seyyed Majid Mousavi, and says Israel and the US had planned the operation for weeks after Trump met Benjamin Netanyahu at Mar-a-Lago on December 29, 2025, amid talk of Iran’s ballistic missile program and nuclear restart after a June bombing run on three enrichment facilities. Trump said Iran was “locked and loaded” during later protests, then after Geneva talks with Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner collapsed over Iran’s refusal to dismantle enrichment, he decided military action was necessary and consulted Sens. Ted Cruz and John Cornyn aboard Air Force One and at the Port of Corpus Christi, saying, “Now we have a big decision to make.” ### USA TODAY, “Latest World & National News & Headlines - USATODAY.com,” 2026-03-01: the item says White House logs obtained by The Washington Post show Donald J. Trump, during a November 2017 state visit to Japan with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, joked when a guest mentioned Pearl Harbor, with the Presidential Daily Briefing for Nov. 7, 2017, recording, “President joked about it being 75 years ago.” The resurfaced comment came ahead of Trump’s March 2026 meeting in Florida with Japanese Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi; the article notes allies and foreign leaders have rebuked Trump for offensive World War II remarks. ### NPR, “What is the U.S. military’s capacity to carry out extended strikes in Iran? : NPR,” 2026-03-01: in an ALL THINGS CONSIDERED interview, Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies said the U.S. could likely sustain extended strikes against Iran for “about a week” before major munition depletion, recalling a 2023 CSIS report about stockpile stress in major-power war. He said in 2025 the U.S. fired a quarter of all its THAAD missiles in a few days of operations against Iran, and warned the U.S. almost certainly would feel pain on THAADs and Patriots sooner rather than later, while the stockpile of GBU-52 bunker busters launched from B-2 stealth bombers is much lower than the large stockpile of GBU-31 smart bombs. He estimated that by mid-2025 Iran had about 3,000 ballistic missiles, about 400 missile launchers, plus Shahed drones, and said Iran could reach the continental U.S. only through a Quds Force or proxy terrorist attack such as Hezbollah; he mentioned a past Washington, D.C., restaurant plot and a threat against Donald Trump during the 2024 campaign, and warned depleted stocks would weaken deterrence for North Korea, Russia, and China. ### CNN, “Inside the