Netanyahu insists US and Israel's strikes on Iran won't lead to 'endless war' | Published March 02, 2026: in an exclusive Fox News interview with Sean Hannity, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Americans should not expect an "endless war" as the United States and Israel keep striking the Iranian regime, calling it a "terror regime" that had hijacked Iran from "the brave Iranian people 47 years ago." He said Iran was at "the weakest point that it's been" since that takeover, predicted the campaign would be "quick and decisive action," and said it would create conditions for the Iranian people "to get control of their destiny" and form "their own democratically elected government," making "a different Iran altogether." He said destroying the regime would usher in "many peace treaties" with other Muslim countries, "change the world," and bring peace "we haven't even dreamed of," with Saudi Arabia singled out as a country that has "a lot to gain" and where peace with Israel would be "very close." He defended Donald Trump, saying critics were "ridiculous" to suggest Trump was dragged into war, calling Trump "the strongest leader in the world" who does what he thinks is right for America and future generations, and he credited their joint work on the Abraham Accords, which he described as "four peace treaties with four Arab countries." Netanyahu said the joint campaign, named "Operation Epic Fury," was necessary because after earlier strikes on Iran's nuclear sites and ballistic missile program, Iran kept building "new sites and new places, underground bunkers" that would make its "ballistic missile program and atomic bomb program immune within months"; if no action was taken now, he warned, Iran could target America, blackmail America, and threaten everyone in between. ### Netanyahu says war against Iran may take 'some time', but not years - AL-Monitor: The Middle Eastʼs leading independent news source since 2012 | Mar 2, 2026: Reuters reported Netanyahu told Fox News' "Hannity" that the U.S. and Israel's war against Iran may take "some time" but "it's not going to take years" and "it's not an endless war," while the air war that began with attacks on Tehran on Saturday had already killed Iranian Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei and prompted Iranian retaliation against Israel and missile attacks at Arab nations with U.S. bases across the Middle East. Trump had initially projected the war would last "four to five weeks" but might go longer, and on Monday was seeking to justify a "broad, open-ended war" on Iran. Netanyahu said the campaign could create a lasting path to peace in the Middle East, including between Israel and Saudi Arabia, and said America and Israel together were creating the conditions for the Iranian people to topple their government; Trump had urged Iranians on Saturday to "take back your country," but on Monday focused instead on preventing Iran from developing a nuclear weapon and thwarting its long-range ballistic missile program. The article also noted only one in four Americans approved of the U.S. strikes in a Reuters/Ipsos poll, and contrasted the war with Trump's 2024 "America First" rhetoric and the long Iraq and Afghanistan wars. ### Likud Minister Says Israeli Elections to Be Moved Up to July for Netanyahu Bloc to Capitalize on Iran War - Israel Political News | March 03, 2026: Likud minister Gila Gamliel said on Tuesday that Israeli national elections will likely be brought forward from October to "late June or July 7," arguing many Israelis will likely "want to go on vacation" in August after the Iran war. ### Middle East conflict widens as Israeli, US strikes again hit Iran; oil soars