“There Are Many Signs” Iran Supreme Leader Khamenei Is Dead, Says Netanyahu, 2026-02-28: Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said after joint Israel-US attacks on Iran, including strikes on Tehran, that “there are many signs” Ayatollah Ali Khamenei had been killed, adding that “the compound of the tyrant Ali Khamenei was destroyed in the heart of Tehran... and there are many signs that this tyrant is no longer alive,” while saying the attack would last “as long as necessary.” Israel’s Channel 12, citing unnamed Israeli sources, said there were “growing indications” the 86-year-old leader had been killed; Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Aragchi told NBC News Khamenei was still alive “As far as I know,” while Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Esmail Baghaei told ABC News he was “safe and sound” and said “the system is working” and Iran’s armed forces were conducting “defensive action.” The strikes began Saturday morning and reportedly hit areas around Khamenei’s offices, with a New York Times satellite photo showing damage to his compound in Tehran, also his official residence; Channel 12’s Amit Segal said “Thirty bombs were dropped on the complex” and that Khamenei was “underground, but probably not in his own bunker.” The article also noted Netanyahu and Donald Trump’s hints at regime change, including Netanyahu’s appeal to “Persians, Kurds, Azeris, Balochs, Abkhazians,” and Trump’s message that “the hour of your freedom is at hand” and “When we are finished, take over your government.” It reviewed Khamenei’s 36-year rule, begun in 1989 after Ruhollah Khomeini, his reliance on the Revolutionary Guards, the weakening of Hamas and Hezbollah, Bashar al-Assad’s toppling, December and January protests over economic hardship, and the June last-year 12-day war. ### Netanyahu says “there are many signs” Iranian supreme leader is “no longer with us” | CNN, 2026-02-28: CNN’s brief said Netanyahu said on Saturday evening there were “many signs” Iran’s supreme leader was “no longer with us,” while stopping short of saying definitively that he was killed. ### Breaking News, Latest News and Videos | CNN, 2026-02-28: CNN’s breaking item was simply “Trump admin, Israel indicate Iran fighting will continue for weeks.” ### Iran’s supreme leader is killed. What happens now? : Sources & Methods : NPR, 2026-02-28: NPR’s special episode opened with Mary Louise Kelly saying “Ayatollah Ali Khamenei is dead, Iran’s supreme leader since 1989, killed today by an Israeli strike,” amid an Israeli and U.S. operation that began that morning; Daniel Estrin reported the opening attack was a surprise blitz by Israel “along with the U.S.,” striking three different gatherings and senior defense officials, with initial reports that Khamenei and Iran’s president Masoud Pezeshkian were targeted. Estrin said Israel later confirmed a “whole host of top officials killed,” including Ali Shamkhani, the supreme leader’s personal adviser, plus the Revolutionary Guards commander, Iran’s defense minister, and a senior intelligence officer tied to the nuclear weapons program; Greg Myre said Saturday in the U.S. was effectively Monday morning in Iran and that Israel expected “another couple of days of intense strikes,” while Netanyahu’s line was that the campaign would continue “as long as necessary.” Trump’s Mar-a-Lago message to “the great, proud people of Iran” said “Stay sheltered. Don’t leave your home... When we are finished, take