Trump's China visit likely won't yield breakthrough, with stability key goal - The Japan Times | 2026-03-08: In BEIJING/WASHINGTON, a summit between U.S. President Donald Trump and Chinese leader Xi Jinping this month was said by five people briefed on preparations to be unlikely to create room for even a limited reset of business and investment ties. American business leaders had not secured the CEO delegation some had sought, and Beijing was not on track for the investment protections it wanted on behalf of Chinese companies. Washington and Beijing were instead focused on maintaining the stability that has characterized relations between the world's two largest economies since late last year, after a bruising period marked by Trump’s tariffs and China’s chokehold on rare earths exports. The article referenced a previous bilateral meeting by Trump and Xi at Gimhae International Airport in Busan, South Korea, on Oct. 30, on the sidelines of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit, with REUTERS supplying the image caption. ### China Hails ‘Landmark’ Year in US Ties Despite Widening Iran War - Bloomberg | 2026-03-08: By Bloomberg News, published March 8, 2026 at 3:07 AM UTC and updated March 8, 2026 at 9:22 AM UTC, the report said that hours after Donald Trump threatened to expand strikes on Iran and hit Beijing’s strategic partner “very hard,” China’s top diplomat, Foreign Minister Wang Yi, told the world’s press that 2026 could be a defining year for U.S.-China ties. Wang said that when the two sides treat each other with sincerity and good faith, they could “make 2026 a landmark year of sound, steady and sustainable development of China-US relations.” ### Is Trump’s China trip still on? Despite Iran, Wang Yi sees potential | South China Morning Post | 2026-03-08: Wang Yi said the United States and China could still have a “big year” in bilateral ties despite Washington’s ongoing strikes against Iran, suggesting a planned visit to China by U.S. President Donald Trump remained on track, with Trump’s meeting with President Xi Jinping expected to start on March 31. The piece said uncertainty had mounted after U.S. and Israeli forces launched major strikes on Iran last month; Beijing said those acts violated international law. At a press conference under the “two sessions,” Wang said “the agenda of high-level exchanges is already on the table,” said China had yet to formally confirm Trump’s visit but that the two countries were in communication, and added that if it went ahead it would be the first visit to China by an American leader in nine years. He urged both sides to “make thorough preparations, foster a conducive atmosphere, manage existing differences, and remove unnecessary distractions,” saying China’s attitude was “positive and open” and that when the two sides act with “sincerity and good faith,” they can “lengthen the list of cooperation and shorten the list of problems.” ### Here's where gold prices could head this spring, according to experts - CBS News | 2026-03-09: CBS News said gold had broken numerous records over the past year and, though down from where it was a month or two ago, was still above $5,000 per ounce, among the highest prices ever seen. Experts said demand was being driven largely by central banks avoiding risky dollar-denominated assets, along with consumers diversifying, hedging inflation, and building long-term wealth. Hiren Chandaria of Monetary Metals said geopolitical tensions, especially any escalation involving Iran, reinforce gold’s safe-haven role, and noted the UAE is one of the world’s largest gold trading and refining hubs, so disruption there could affect output. He also cited