In df25c2775afc, “How Trump decided to strike Iran: What led up to his attack” published on 2026-03-01, NBC News said President Donald Trump ordered strikes on Iran after prolonged negotiations and a last-chance Geneva meeting Thursday in which U.S. officials, including Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner, told Iranian counterparts Iran must not enrich uranium for the next 10 years; Abbas Araghchi said Iran had an “inalienable right” to enrich uranium, Witkoff replied the U.S. had an “inalienable right” to stop them, Araghchi reportedly started yelling, and Trump was “nonplussed.” By Saturday morning the U.S. was at war: Trump’s 2:30 a.m. ET video declared “Major combat operations” had begun, under “Operation Epic Fury,” which started at 1:15 a.m. ET Saturday (9:45 a.m. in Tehran) from Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach, Florida, where Trump watched with Marco Rubio and Susie Wiles. The article says the U.S. deployed B-2 stealth bombers, fighter jets, missiles and rockets against Iran’s navy, missile sites, command and control headquarters and air defense systems, timed for daylight to try to kill Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and his senior deputies; Khamenei died in the attack, counterstrikes followed, three U.S. service members were killed and five injured in Kuwait, and Trump said sadly there would likely be more casualties before it ends. It also recounts Trump’s 10-to-15-day deadline on Feb. 19, his order for the USS Gerald R. Ford from the Caribbean to the Middle East, Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent’s claim that a dollar shortage helped trigger Iranian protests, Trump’s offer of free nuclear fuel rejected by Araghchi (“we don’t need any favors from you”), John Bolton’s warning about lack of strategic planning, Lindsey Graham’s statement that more strikes were possible, and Trump’s comment to the Daily Mail that the war may end in four weeks or less; Trump told NBC he attacked because “They weren’t willing to stop their nuclear research” and weren’t willing to say they would not have a nuclear weapon. ### In “Gold Surges Past $5,300 as Middle East Fighting Escalates” published on 2026-03-02, Barron’s said gold rallied early Monday and surged past $5,300 as investors reacted to worsening conflict in the Middle East, with analysts warning the move may not be worth chasing if tensions do not disrupt energy markets for long, and noting gold and silver could benefit the longer the conflict persists. ### In “Gold Rises as Escalating Conflict in Middle East Stokes Demand” published on 2026-03-02, Bloomberg said gold slumped more than 6% amid the broader turmoil, weighed down by a stronger dollar, the prospect of less monetary easing, and forced selling tied to an equities rout; a dollar gauge rallied, bond yields advanced, traders scaled back bets on Federal Reserve rate cuts, and inflationary risks from surging energy prices as the Iran war intensifies could force the Fed and global peers to hold rates steady or even hike them. ### In “Current price of silver as of Monday, March 2, 2026 | Fortune” published on 2026-03-02, Fortune’s Joseph Hostetler reported that at 8:45 a.m. Eastern Time silver was valued at $94.26 per ounce, down $0.72 from the same time yesterday but more than a $62 gain over the past year. ### In “What will happen to gold and silver prices this March?