Saudi Arabia told Iran not to attack it, warns of retaliation: Reuters

U.S. Secretary of State Marco Rubio meets with Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Faisal bin Farhan Al Saud at Department of State, in Washington, D.C., U.S., April 9, 2025.

Saudi Arabia has told Tehran that while it favors a diplomatic settlement to Iran‚Äôs conflict with the United States, continued attacks ‚ÅÝon the kingdom and its energy sector could push Riyadh to respond in kind, four sources familiar with the matter told Reuters.

The message was conveyed before a speech on Saturday in which Iranian President ‚ÄãMasoud Pezeshkian apologized to neighboring Gulf states for Tehran‚Äôs ‚Äãactions ‚Äî an apparent attempt to defuse regional anger ‚Äãover Iranian strikes that hit civilian targets.

Two days earlier, Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Faisal bin Farhan spoke to Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araqchi and set out Riyadh‚Äôs position with clarity, the sources said.

Saudi Arabia is open to any form of mediation aimed at de-escalation and a negotiated settlement, the sources quoted the minister as saying, underlining that neither Riyadh ‚ÅÝnor other ‚ÄåGulf states had let the U.S. use their airspace or territory to launch airstrikes on ‚ÅÝIran.

But Prince Faisal was also quoted by the sources as saying that if Iranian attacks persisted against Saudi territory or energy infrastructure, Saudi Arabia would be forced to permit U.S. forces to use their bases there for military operations. Riyadh would retaliate if attacks on the kingdom‚Äôs critical energy facilities continued, he said.

The sources said the kingdom had remained in regular contact with Tehran through its ambassador since ‚Äåthe U.S. and Israeli military campaign against Iran began on Feb 28, following the collapse of talks on Iran‚Äôs nuclear program.

The Saudi and Iranian foreign ministries did not respond to requests for comment.

## Drone and missile attacks on Gulf states

The United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Qatar, Bahrain and Saudi Arabia ‚Äãhave all come under heavy drone and missile fire from Iran over the past week.

Iran‚Äôs Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, was killed on the first day of the war. Tehran responded by hitting Israel and Gulf Arab states hosting U.S. military installations, and Israel has attacked Lebanon‚Äôs Iran-backed Hezbollah armed group.

Araqchi said in an interview on Saturday that he remained in constant contact with his Saudi counterpart and other Saudi officials, adding that Riyadh had ‚ÅÝassured Tehran it was fully committed to not allowing its territory, waters or airspace to be used for attacks against Iran.

Pezeshkian said Iran‚Äôs temporary leadership council had approved suspending attacks on nearby ‚Äåcountries - unless an attack on Iran came from those nations.

‚ÄúI personally apologise to neighbouring countries that were affected by ‚ÄåIran‚Äôs actions,‚Äù he said.

To what extent Pezeshkian‚Äôs remarks signal a change is unclear. There were further reports of strikes directed at Gulf states on Saturday.

Also, in a sign of possible divisions within Iran‚Äôs leadership, Khatam al-Anbiya Central Headquarters - the unified combatant command of the Iranian armed forces - said in a statement afterwards that U.S. and Israeli bases and interests across the region would remain ‚ÅÝtargets.

The command said Iran‚Äôs armed forces respected the sovereignty and interests of neighbouring states and had not taken action against them so far. But ‚ÅÝit said U.S. and Israeli military bases and assets on land, at sea and in the air across the region would be treated ‚ÅÝas primary targets and face ‚Äúpowerful and heavy‚Äù strikes by Iran‚Äôs forces.

U.S. President Donald Trump said in a social media post that Iran had ‚Äúapologized and surrendered to its Middle East neighbours, and promised that it will not shoot at them anymore. This promise was ‚Äãonly made because of the relentless U.S. and Israeli attack.‚Äù

Two Iranian sources confirmed that ‚Äåa call had taken place in which Riyadh warned Tehran to halt attacks on Saudi Arabia and neighbouring Gulf states. Iran, they said, reiterated its position that the strikes were not aimed at Gulf countries themselves but at U.S. interests and military bases hosted on their territory.

One Iranian source said that Tehran had, in response, demanded that U.S. bases in the region be closed and that some Gulf states stop sharing intelligence with Washington that Iran believes is being used to carry out attacks against it.

Another Iranian source said some military commanders were pressing to continue the ‚Äãstrikes, accusing the U.S. of using bases in Gulf states ‚Äåand these countries‚Äô airspace to conduct operations against Iran.

Iran had, in recent years, mended fences with its Gulf neighbors, including its former regional arch-rival, Saudi Arabia. The diplomatic campaign imploded in the blitz of drones and missiles launched by Iran‚Äôs ‚ÄãRevolutionary Guards in the past week.