Here's who members of Congress from Minnesota brought to Trump's State of the Union - CBS Minnesota, 2026-02-24: Residents detained by federal agents and the son of a slain state lawmaker were among the guests the Minnesota delegation brought to President Trump's State of the Union address on Tuesday night in Washington, D.C.; the speech was Mr. Trump's first State of the Union address of his second term, after his joint session address last March was not a formal SOTU. Rep. Kelly Morrison brought Colin Hortman, the son of Minnesota House Speaker Emerita Melissa Hortman, and Rep. Betty McCollum brought Colin's wife, Alina Bachman Hortman. Melissa and her husband Mark Hortman were shot and killed in their Brooklyn Park home last June in what prosecutors called a politically motivated attack; after their deaths Colin and Sophie Hortman said their parents "touched so many lives" and left "an incredible legacy of dedication to their community that will live on in us." Rep. Ilhan Omar brought four people she said reflect how ICE's actions in Minnesota through "Operation Metro Surge" devastated Minnesotans' safety and economic security: Aliya Rahman, who was dragged out of her car on the way to a doctor's appointment and detained by federal agents, said on video she has a disability and later testified that she can no longer lift her arms normally and described "horrific" conditions at the Whipple Federal Building in Minneapolis; Mary Granlund, chair of the Columbia Heights Public School Board, whose district got national attention after 5-year-old Liam Ramos and his father were detained outside their home near Valley View Elementary School; Mubashir Hussen, a 20-year-old U.S. citizen who said he was violently detained during his lunch break in Cedar-Riverside and is suing the Trump administration for allegedly racially profiling him and making arrests without warrants; and Gerardo Orozco Guzman, who works with a center organizing against ICE detention of construction workers from job sites, whose father was detained in early January and is held at Cibola County Correctional Center in New Mexico. Rep. Pete Stauber brought conservative YouTuber Nick Shirley, who with David Hoch made a viral December video accusing, often without evidence, a dozen Somali-owned day care centers of fraud; after that, the Trump administration sent as many as 3,000 federal agents to Minnesota to crack down on fraud and undocumented immigration, but since border czar Tom Homan said the surge was winding down, federal officials have given no updates on day care fraud. Sen. Tina Smith boycotted the address and instead appeared at the National Mall with Fridley Public Schools Superintendent Brenda Lewis for the People's State of the Union; Smith praised Lewis as an example of Minnesotans organizing in the face of a "violent federal police force," while Lewis said she would speak about the "unacceptable reality" her district has endured at ICE's hands. Smith told the crowd, "Families are torn apart and they will never be put back together again. The pain and the suffering and the damage is going to last for a very, very long time and this is what Donald Trump and Kristi Noem are doing to us right now." Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey appeared at another event, "State of the Swamp," where he said Minneapolis had shown that "the forces of terror and division can never conquer a city that loves its neighbors more than it fears retribution," adding that the spirit "does not belong to one city; it belongs to America." Virginia Gov. Abigail Spanberger delivered the Democratic response; Spanberger was elected in November as Virginia's first female governor. Other Minnesota guests included Blaine Police Chief Brian Podany, business owner Sean Syverson, who says he has been hit by Trump tariffs, and Minnesota Farm Bureau President Dan Glessing. ### Who’s on tonight’s State of the Union guest list? : NPR, 2026-02-24: President Trump's guests for his State of the Union on Tuesday night included a Virginia teen at the center of a legal case involving parental rights and schooling, the U.S. men's hockey team, and Erika Kirk, the widow of activist Charlie Kirk. Presidents traditionally invite people tied to issues they support, while first lady Melania Trump chose her own attendees to highlight AI education and foster care; Republican House Speaker Mike Johnson invited the daughter of a Uyghur doctor who went missing in 2018, and several Democrats brought survivors of alleged Jeffrey Epstein abuse. On the Republican side, Pete Stauber of Minnesota was bringing conservative YouTuber Nick Shirley, who said on X that Shirley helped show "the crisis level of fraud and corruption happening in our own state government that's cost taxpayers $9 billion." Democratic Rep. Mark Takano was attending with George Retes, a U.S. citizen who said federal immigration agents pepper-sprayed him, pulled him from his car in Ventura, Calif., and detained him for three days with no explanation or hearing after he was on his way to work in July. The U.S. men's hockey team, fresh off gold over Canada at the Winter Olympics, was expected to attend. Mike Johnson was bringing Ziba Murat, daughter of Gulshan Abbas, a retired medical doctor who went missing in China in 2018 after her sister criticized China’s treatment of Uyghurs. Melania Trump was bringing Sierra Burns, from the Foster Youth to Independence Program, and Everest Nevraumont, a 10-year-old public speaker and advocate for AI education. Erika Kirk, new CEO and board chair of Turning Point USA after Charlie Kirk was assassinated in September, was there; Karoline Leavitt said Trump would use her presence to call on Congress to "firmly reject political violence against our fellow citizens." Trump also had as a guest Saige Blair, the subject of a lawsuit alleging Virginia school officials made decisions about Blair’s well-being and gender identity without informing Blair’s parents when Blair was 14. Not coming: the U.S. women's Olympic hockey team declined due to scheduling conflicts, while several Democrats planned The People's State of the Union instead, including Sens. Ruben Gallego, Tina Smith, Jeff Merkley, and House members Yassamin Ansari, Becca Balint, Greg Casar, Teresa Leger Fernandez, Maxwell Frost, Robert Garcia, Jim Himes, Sara Jacobs, Pramila Jayapal, John Larson, Sydney Kamlager-Dove, Summer Lee, Chellie Pingree, Emily Randall, Mary Gay Scanlon, Delia Ramirez, and Bonnie Watson Coleman; Ayanna Pressley said she would not "sit and listen to that man spew lies and hate," Adam Schiff said he would not give Trump "the audience he craves," Ed Markey said he was going to the alternative event, and Chris Van Hollen said, "Trump is marching America towards fascism, and I refuse to normalize his shredding of our Constitution & democracy." ### Here's who members of Congress from Minnesota are bringing to Trump's State of the Union - CBS Minnesota, 2026-02-24: Residents detained by federal agents and the son of a slain state lawmaker were among the Minnesota delegation's guests at President Trump's Tuesday night address in Washington, D.C.; it was Mr. Trump's first State of the Union of his second term, after last March's joint session address did not count as a formal SOTU. Colin Hortman, son of Minnesota House Speaker Emerita Melissa Hortman, attended with Rep. Kelly Morrison, and Rep. Betty McCollum brought Colin Hortman's wife, Alina Bachman Hortman. Melissa and Mark Hortman were shot and killed in their Brooklyn Park home last June in what prosecutors called a politically motivated attack; their children Colin and Sophie said their parents "touched so many lives" and left "an incredible legacy of dedication to their community that will live on in us." Ilhan Omar brought four guests tied to ICE's "Operation Metro Surge": Aliya Rahman, who was dragged out of her car on the way to a doctor's appointment and later testified she can no longer lift her arms normally after being detained by federal agents; Mary Granlund, Columbia Heights school board chair, whose district got attention after 5-year-old Liam Ramos and his father were detained outside Valley View Elementary School; Mubashir Hussen, a 20-year-old U.S. citizen detained during lunch in Cedar-Riverside and now suing over alleged racial profiling and warrantless arrests; and Gerardo Orozco Guzman, whose father was detained in early January and is held at Cibola County Correctional Center in New Mexico. Pete Stauber said he was bringing Nick Shirley, who with David Hoch made a December viral video accusing a dozen Somali-owned day care centers of fraud, prompting the Trump administration to send as many as 3,000 federal agents to Minnesota in a crackdown on fraud and undocumented immigration; since Tom Homan said the surge was winding down, there have been no public updates on the day care fraud issue. Tina Smith boycotted and joined Brenda Lewis at the People's State of the Union on the National Mall, where Smith said, "Families are torn apart and they will never be put back together again. The pain and the suffering and the damage is going to last for a very, very long time and this is what Donald Trump and Kristi Noem are doing to us right now." Lewis said her district has endured the "unacceptable reality" of ICE, and Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey appeared at the separate "State of the Swamp" event, saying Minneapolis had shown that "the forces of terror and division can never conquer a city that loves its neighbors more than it fears retribution," and that the spirit "does not belong to one city; it belongs to America." The Democratic response to Trump's address was given by Virginia Gov. Abigail Spanberger, elected in November as Virginia's first female governor; other Minnesota guests were Blaine Police Chief Brian Podany, Sean Syverson, a business owner affected by tariffs, and Minnesota Farm Bureau President Dan Glessing. ### Who are some of the Illinois guests who will attend the 2026 State of the Union address? - CBS Chicago, 2026-02-24: Illinois guests at Tuesday night's State of the Union had local ties to ICE raids in Chicago and the death of Rev. Jesse Jackson, while Chicago Mayor Brandon Johnson was in Washington for an unofficial rebuttal at the National Press Club with the mayor of Minneapolis and other Democrats and celebrities. Chicago-area attendees inside the House chamber were meant to symbolize the hardship from Trump immigration and tariff policies. Marimar Martinez, three weeks after testifying on Capitol Hill, was Rep. Jesus "Chuy" Garcia's guest after being shot five times by a federal immigration officer last fall and then charged but later cleared of assaulting federal agents. Jaime, a UIC student from Mount Prospect, attended as Rep. Raja Krishnamoorthi's guest after his father, a 30-year union roofer who was undocumented and had no criminal history, was detained for five days last fall at the ICE facility in Broadview and coerced into signing a "voluntary departure" to Mexico; Jaime said, "My father was saying there was 60 people crammed in the room, and they didn't allow the congressman to go in. That is possibly what we should be talking about; more oversight." Tariffs were also a theme: Vernon Hills-based Learning Resources CEO Rick Woldenberg, whose company sued in a case that led to the Supreme Court striking down a set of sweeping global tariffs, was the guest of Rep. Brad Schneider. Four of Rev. Jesse Jackson's children were in the chamber, with Santita, Yusef and Jesse Jr. as guests of House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries, while their brother Rep. Jonathan Jackson also attended as a House member. Rep. Robin Kelly’s guest was the CEO of the Chicago Urban League, and outgoing Sen. Dick Durbin brought original "Dreamer" Tereza Lee, whose case inspired him to write the DREAM Act 25 years ago to create a pathway to citizenship for immigrants who came as children. At least six Illinois Democrats boycotted the speech: Sen. Tammy Duckworth and Reps. Sean Casten, Mike Quigley, Delia Ramirez, Jan Schakowsky and Eric Sorensen. ### Who sits where for the State of the Union? See the seating chart for the 2026 address - CBS News, 2026-02-24: President Trump delivered the first official State of the Union address of his second term, after last year's speech was technically a joint address to Congress. The vice president and House speaker sit directly behind the president; this year that meant JD Vance on the viewers' left and Mike Johnson on the right. Supreme Court justices usually sit in a front row on the House chamber floor, though the 2026 address came four days after the Court dealt Trump a major blow by ruling he lacked authority under an emergency powers law to impose sweeping tariffs; justices were also issuing opinions that morning and the morning after. The first lady's box is in the gallery above, on the viewers' right, and can host up to about two dozen guests, while the second lady typically sits there too. Members of Congress seat themselves first-come, first-served and usually by party, with Republicans and Democrats on opposite sides, senators toward the front and House members toward the back. Cabinet members generally sit in front-row seats; there was no official seating chart released by the Trump administration or Congress. ### Exclusive: Hegseth gives Anthropic until Friday to back down on AI safeguards ===: Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth told Anthropic CEO Dario Amodei in a tense Tuesday meeting that the Pentagon will either cut ties and declare Anthropic a "supply chain risk," or invoke the Defense Production Act to force the company to tailor Claude to military needs unless Anthropic gives the military unfettered access by Friday evening. Anthropic's Claude is currently the only AI model used for the military's most sensitive work, and the Pentagon is worried about losing access to it even as it wants to punish Anthropic over its safety restrictions. Anthropic says it will adapt usage policies for the Pentagon, but not permit mass surveillance of Americans or development of weapons that fire without human involvement; a Defense official said, "The only reason we're still talking to these people is we need them and we need them now. The problem for these guys is they are that good." Hegseth reportedly said he won't let any company dictate operational terms or object to individual use cases. He specifically cited the Pentagon's claim that Anthropic had raised concerns to partner Palantir over Claude's use during the Maduro raid, which Amodei denied beyond standard operating conversations. In the meeting Hegseth was joined by Deputy Secretary Steve Feinberg, Under Secretary for Research and Engineering Emil Michael, Under Secretary for Acquisition and Sustainment Michael Duffey, chief spokesperson Sean Parnell and general counsel Earl Matthews