Watch: Trump's full statement on U.S. strikes against Iran - CBS News, 2026-02-28: President Trump said early Saturday morning that the U.S. was conducting “a massive and ongoing operation to prevent this very wicked, radical dictatorship from threatening America and our core national security interests,” and CBS said “See his full remarks.” Trump’s statement came amid U.S. strikes on Iran and framed the campaign as a defense of the United States and its national security interests. ### Trump announces beginning of 'major combat operations in Iran', 2026-02-28: Trump confirmed the strikes on Iran in a video message shared on Truth Social, saying “they can never have a nuclear weapon,” and the piece’s central claim is that he announced the beginning of “major combat operations in Iran.” ### Read Trump's full statement on Iran attacks | PBS News, 2026-02-28: In an 8-minute video posted on Truth Social, Donald Trump said the U.S. had begun “major combat operations in Iran,” claimed Iran had continued to develop its nuclear program and planned missiles to reach the U.S., and appealed to “the Iranian people to ‘take over your government.’” The transcript says “A short time ago, the United States military began major combat operations in Iran,” says the goal is “to defend the American people by eliminating imminent threats from the Iranian regime,” and lists Iranian-regime offenses over “47 years,” including the U.S. Embassy takeover in Tehran with hostages held for “444 days,” the 1983 Beirut barracks bombing killing “241 American military personnel,” the 2000 USS Cole attack, and Iranian-backed attacks in Iraq and elsewhere. Trump said “Operation Midnight Hammer last June” had “obliterated” Fordo, Natanz and Isfahan, and vowed to “destroy their missiles and raze their missile industry to the ground,” “annihilate their navy,” and ensure Iran never gets a nuclear weapon. He also told the Islamic Revolutionary Guard, the armed forces and police to “lay down your weapons and have complete immunity” or face “certain death,” while telling Iranians “the hour of your freedom is at hand,” “Stay sheltered. Don’t leave your home. It’s very dangerous outside. Bombs will be dropping everywhere,” and “When we are finished, take over your government. It will be yours to take. This will be probably your only chance for generations.” ### UK forces join 'regional defensive operations' as US, Israel strike Iran, 2026-02-28: Reuters said British Prime Minister Keir Starmer, speaking at 10 Downing Street, said British forces and planes were taking part in “coordinated regional defensive operations” to protect British people, interests and allies, but were not participating in the U.S. and Israeli strikes against Iran. Starmer said, “Our forces are active and British planes are in the sky today,” and added that Britain had “stepped up protections for British bases and personnel to their highest level,” while also stressing that Iran “must never be allowed to develop nuclear weapons.” He said Britain had not taken part in the strikes, called the regime “utterly abhorrent,” held calls with his French and German counterparts after a COBRA emergency meeting, and later warned against escalation, urging Iran to “refrain from further strikes, give up their weapons programmes, and cease the appalling violence and repression against the Iranian people.” The government also advised against all travel to Israel and the Palestinian territories and said embassy staff had been moved from Tel Aviv to another location in Israel on Friday. ### Israel and US launch strikes on Iran - AL-Monitor: The Middle Eastʼs leading independent news source since 2012, 2026-02-28: AL-Monitor reported from WASHINGTON, DUBAI, CAIRO, Feb 28 that Israel launched a “pre-emptive attack” against Iran on Saturday and a U.S. attack was underway, plunging the Middle East into renewed military confrontation and dimming hopes for diplomacy over Tehran’s nuclear dispute. It said the U.S. military initiated a series of strikes against targets in Iran, that an Iranian official warned Iran was preparing “crushing retaliation,” and that a source said Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, had been transferred to a secure location. The piece said the attack followed a 12-day air war in June between Israel and Iran and prior warnings over nuclear and ballistic missile programs; Israel’s defense minister Israel Katz said the operation was to remove threats to Israel, and an Israeli defense official said it had been planned for months with Washington and the launch date decided weeks ago. It noted explosions in Tehran, sirens across Israel around “8.15 a.m. local time,” closures of schools and workplaces except essential sectors, a ban on public airspace, closure of Israel’s airspace to civilian flights, and the February U.S.-Iran negotiations over nuclear curbs and sanctions relief. Iran said it would defend itself and warned neighbors hosting U.S. troops it would retaliate against American bases if Washington struck. ### Iran Strikes: Israel Has Long Sought a US War on Khamenei’s Regime. What’s Next? - Bloomberg, 2026-02-28: Bloomberg’s Ethan Bronner wrote at “February 28, 2026 at 6:06 PM UTC” that Israeli officials had since George W. Bush’s 2003 Iraq war tried to get Washington to hit Iran for regime change, and now “the US is doing so and — in a first — together with Israel.” It said the U.S. joined Israel’s June 2025 attack on Iranian nuclear sites, but this time the two powers “planned and carried out the bombardment in unison,” and that several top Iranian leaders “appear to have been killed,” notably in a morning attack on a meeting of intelligence officials in Tehran, according to an Israeli official. ### Could the US-Israel war on Iran drag on? - AL-Monitor: The Middle Eastʼs leading independent news source since 2012, 2026-02-28: AL-Monitor argued the joint U.S.-Israeli strikes could become an extended operation with “multiple and complex” strategic goals to decapitate the Islamic republic and weaken its security capabilities. It quoted army chief Lt. Gen. Eyal Zamir saying the operation was on a “completely different scale” than the June war, and said Abbas Araghchi declared U.S. and Israeli installations involved were “legitimate targets” before Iranian state TV announced a new wave of missiles at U.S. bases in the Gulf. Analyst David Khalfa said the campaign could last “several days, or even several weeks,” and described it as a “multi-domain offensive” to disrupt the chain of command and provoke internal transition or regime change; Sanam Vakil called it “existential” and unlikely to end quickly. The piece also said Tehran told Gulf capitals it had “no intention of attacking them” but was hitting U.S. bases there “as an act of self-defence,” that Hezbollah called on “the states and peoples of the region” to oppose the “aggression,” and that Washington risked being drawn into “a new conflict in the Middle East with no clear way out.” ### "There Are Many Signs" Iran Supreme Leader Khamenei Is Dead, Says Netanyahu, 2026-02-28: This article said Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told reporters hours after the U.S. and Israel struck Iran that “there are many signs” Ayatollah Ali Khamenei had been killed, adding, “This morning, in a powerful surprise strike, the compound of the tyrant Ali Khamenei was destroyed in the heart of Tehran... and there are many signs that this tyrant is no longer alive,” while still stopping short of absolute confirmation. It said Iranian outlets quoted Foreign Minister Abbas Aragchi telling NBC News Khamenei was alive “As far as I know,” while spokesperson Esmail Baghaei told ABC News he was “safe and sound.” The report said the joint attack began Saturday morning, that the first strikes hit around Khamenei’s offices and he had reportedly been moved to a secure location, that a satellite photo from the New York Times showed damage to his Tehran compound, and that Channel 12’s Amit Segal said “Thirty bombs were dropped on the complex.” It also highlighted regime-change rhetoric from both Netanyahu and Trump, including Netanyahu’s appeal to “the Iranian people in all their diversity - Persians, Kurds, Azeris, Balochs, Abkhazians, and all other citizens” to establish “a new and free Iran,” and Trump’s message to Iranians to “take over your government.” ### Netanyahu says “there are many signs” Iranian supreme leader is “no longer with us” | CNN, 2026-02-28: CNN reported Netanyahu said Saturday evening that “there are many signs” Khamenei was “no longer with us,” while not definitively saying he was killed. ### Breaking News, Latest News and Videos | CNN, 2026-02-28: CNN’s breaking line said “Trump admin, Israel indicate Iran fighting will continue for weeks,” summarizing official signals that the conflict would not end quickly. ### Iran's supreme leader is killed. What happens now? : Sources & Methods : NPR, 2026-02-28: NPR’s “SOURCES & METHODS” special, hosted by Mary Louise Kelly, opened by saying “Ayatollah Ali Khamenei is dead, Iran’s supreme leader since 1989, killed today by an Israeli strike,” in the context of an Israeli and U.S. operation that began that morning, and asked what comes next for Iran and the world. NPR national security correspondent Greg Myre and international correspondent Daniel Estrin described the opening strike as a “surprise blitz” targeting senior Iranian defense officials, said three gatherings were struck simultaneously, and reported initial claims that Khamenei and possibly President Masoud Pezeshkian were hit; later Israel confirmed a host of top officials killed, including Ali Shamkhani, the personal adviser to the supreme leader, plus the Revolutionary Guards commander, Iran’s defense minister, a senior intelligence officer and others tied to the nuclear weapons program. The report said Khamenei’s death was eventually announced late at night by President Trump; Myre said the normal succession mechanism would be Iran’s 88-member Assembly of Experts selecting a new leader, but in a crisis it might fall to security forces or the Revolutionary Guards, and he said a ground war looked “very, very unlikely” because U.S. ground troops in the region were only a fraction of what would be needed. Estrin said Israel announced this as its “largest aerial operation” ever, with “around 200 fighter jets,” and that a person briefed on the operation expected “another couple of days of intense strikes” and retaliatory attacks. The program also aired Trump’s call to Iranians: “Stay sheltered. Don’t leave your home. It’s very dangerous outside. Bombs will be dropping everywhere. When we are finished, take over your government. It will be yours to take,” and Myre said this “sounds like regime change.” On the ground, NPR quoted a Tehran resident identified only as “V” who saw explosions downtown, and a 22-year-old college student who said, “I am ready to be killed by a bomb if it means the certain death of even a few of our regime officials.” Estrin also warned that the Strait of Hormuz is “a strategic waterway,” “crucial to the world’s oil trade,” and said the day’s repercussions were already being felt in Dubai, Tel Aviv and across the region. ### Iranian state media confirms Supreme Leader Khamenei is dead, 2026-02-28: This report said Iranian Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei was killed in an Israeli strike Saturday as part of a “massive joint military operation between the U.S. and Israel,” and that the Iranian government declared “40 days of public mourning” following the “martyrdom” of the 86-year-old who had ruled for over 36 years. It said Trump celebrated Khamenei’s death on Truth Social, calling him “one of the most evil people in History” and saying his killing was “justice” for Americans and others killed by Iran over decades, warning bombing would “continue, uninterrupted throughout the week or as long as necessary” to achieve “peace throughout the Middle East and, indeed, the world,” and saying Khamenei “was unable to avoid our Intelligence and Highly Sophisticated Tracking Systems.” It said Trump urged IRGC members and police to “peacefully merge with the Iranian Patriots,” while the article identified Khamenei as one of the world’s longest-serving authoritarian rulers whose death triggered an immediate succession crisis, with under Iran’s constitution an interim council assuming power while the Assembly of Experts chooses a new supreme leader. It named seven confirmed dead besides Khamenei: former SPND chairman Reza Mozaffari-Nia, SPND chairman Hossein Jabal Amelian, head of Iranian military intelligence Saleh Asadi, Khamenei’s chief military secretary Mohammad Shirazi, Defense Minister Aziz Nasirzadeh, IRGC commander Mohammad Pakpour, and top security adviser Ali Shamkhani. It said Ali Larijani emerged as the most senior civilian official still standing and vowed an “unforgettable lesson,” and noted Mojtaba Khamenei had been discussed as a successor though Israeli officials said Khamenei’s sons were targeted and intelligence assessments suggested they survived. ### Ayatollah Ali Khamenei: Iran's defiant leader's grip on power ends, 2026-02-28: The BBC-style profile said Khamenei, the 86-year-old ruler of more than three decades, was killed on the first day of massive U.S. and Israeli air strikes on Iran and that his death was later confirmed on Iranian state TV. It recounted that Iran has had only two supreme leaders since the 1979 Islamic Revolution; Khamenei was head of state and commander-in-chief of the armed forces, including the Revolutionary Guards, and could veto public policy and hand-pick candidates, while his image appeared on billboards and on state TV. Born in Mashhad in 1939 to a religious family, he was arrested six times by the shah’s secret police, survived a 1981 bombing that injured him and left him with a permanently disabled right arm, became Tehran’s Friday prayer leader after the revolution, and in 1989 was chosen by the Assembly of Experts after Ruhollah Khomeini’s death. The piece described his consolidation of power through loyalists in parliament, judiciary, police, media and the clerical elite, his reliance on the security apparatus, crackdowns on 1999 student protests, the 2009 post-election revolt, the 2019 fuel-price unrest with an internet shutdown