UK ends centuries-old hereditary seats in parliament upper chamber

Britain's parliament has approved legislation to remove the remaining hereditary peers from the House of Lords, ending a centuries-old system of aristocratic ​seats in the upper chamber that the government says should not ‌be secured by birth.

France to provide 60 tons of humanitarian aid for Lebanon

France will provide 60 metric tons of humanitarian ​aid for ​Lebanon, French Foreign Minister Jean-Noel ⁠Barrot said on ​Wednesday.

Spain to launch tool to monitor hate on social media, PM Sanchez says

Spain will launch a tool to measure hate speech on digital platforms as ​part of a broader strategy to increase ‌oversight of social media companies, Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said on Wednesday.

Protests sweep around the globe as war in Iran continues

Protests and public demonstrations have rippled around the world following the largest U.S. and Israeli attacks on Iran in decades, data from the Armed Conflict Location &amp; Event Data Project (ACLED) shows.

Pfizer, Teva lose bid to disqualify ex-prosecutor in generic drug price‑fixing case

Pfizer , Teva and other major drugmakers have failed to persuade a federal judge to disqualify a former prosecutor who is representing private health insurers suing the ​companies after he spearheaded similar antitrust lawsuits on behalf of U.S. states.

Canadian non-prime lender goeasy extends slide after major charge-off, forecast withdrawal

Canadian non-prime consumer lender goeasy's shares slumped 16% on Wednesday after more ‌than halving in value in the previous session, as the company flagged a charge-off of about C$178 million and write-downs tied to its LendCare unit.

Argentina's TGS to invest $3 bln in natural gas liquids project

Argentine energy firm Transportadora ​de Gas del Sur (TGS) said on Wednesday it will ‌invest $3 billion in a new natural gas liquids project in the Vaca Muerta shale formation.

US launches unfair-trade probes to rebuild Trump's tariff pressure

US Trade Representative Jamieson Greer said the investigation could lead to ‌new tariffs imposed against China, the European Union, India, Japan, South Korea and Mexico by this summer.

Hall of Fame cap saga ends for Andre Dawson

The Baseball Hall of Fame announced Wednesday that it has allowed Andre Dawson to recast his plaque without a logo on his cap.

Barca prez candidate hopes Messi ‘tells the truth’ about failed return

Victor Font wants Lionel Messi to fess up.

Exclusive: Russia prepares 10% cut to 'non-sensitive' spending in 2026, sources say

The Russian government is preparing a possible 10% cut ​to all "non-sensitive" spending in this year's budget, sources told Reuters, but the final decision will hinge on the sustainability of the oil price rise ‌triggered by the Iran war.

Otega Oweh stands out as Kentucky knocks off LSU in SEC play

NASHVILLE -- Otega Oweh recorded 23 points and eight rebounds and Kentucky committed just five turnovers during its 87-82 win ​over LSU in Wednesday's first-round game of the Southeastern Conference tournament.

London-listed Capricorn Energy gets takeover proposals from unit of Saudi's Cafani Group

Oil producer Capricorn ​Energy said on Wednesday it ‌has received multiple non-binding takeover proposals from Alamadiyaf al-Masiyyah, a Cafani Group-affiliated investment ​vehicle, for a possible all-cash ​deal.

Rockets break open tight game in 4th, knock off Raptors

Kevin Durant scored a game-high 29 points, while Amen Thompson and Jabari Smith Jr. chipped in 23 points apiece as the Houston Rockets pulled away in the fourth quarter ​of a 113-99 victory over the visiting Toronto Raptors on Tuesday.

Austrian property tycoon Benko's family trust files for insolvency

A large trust established for the family of fallen Austrian property tycoon Rene Benko has filed for insolvency, it said ​on Wednesday, after it was ordered to pay around $1 ‌billion to firms belonging to Abu Dhabi sovereign wealth fund Mubadala.

UCF erases late 8-point deficit to edge Cincinnati in Big 12

Riley Kugel scored 15 points that included two baskets that helped send the game into overtime and John Bol added four huge free throws in the extra period as ​UCF outlasted Cincinnati, 66-65, in a Big 12 tournament second-round game on Wednesday ‌afternoon in Kansas City.

Duty free retailer Avolta posts 2025 sales below estimates

Swiss duty-free ​retailer Avolta reported annual turnover slightly below expectations on Wednesday, as a challenging market ‌environment persisted.

Gold eases as firmer dollar, lingering inflation concerns persist

Gold prices edged lower on Wednesday, weighed down by an uptick ‌in the U.S. dollar and looming inflation concerns that bolstered expectations of higher interest rates.

Spain supports IEA oil release from strategic reserves, minister says

Spain supports ​the International Energy ‌Agency's proposal to undertake the largest release ​of oil ​reserves in its history ⁠to mitigate ​soaring crude prices caused ​by the U.S.-Israel war with Iran, Spanish Energy ​Minister Sara ​Aagesen said on Wednesday.

EU to provide 100 mln euros in humanitarian aid to Lebanon, von der Leyen says

European Commission President Ursula von der ​Leyen said on Wednesday ‌the EU intends to provide 100 million euros ($115.85 ​million) in humanitarian ​aid to Lebanon after she ⁠had a call ​with Lebanese President Joseph Aoun.

Raiders: Ravens 'backed out' of trade for star DE Maxx Crosby

The Ravens' big splash for Maxx Crosby is off.

Canada oil producers say little can be done to boost oil production in the short term

Canada's oil industry said on Wednesday there is little it can ‌do to increase crude production in the short-term, even as the Canadian government sought ways to help global efforts to stabilize oil prices during the Iran war.

ECB's Schnabel warns of scars from post-pandemic inflation spike

The post-pandemic spike in ​inflation has left scars ‌on companies and consumers, which now ​know that prices ​can rise fast and ⁠settle at a ​higher level, ECB ​policymaker Isabel Schnabel said on Wednesday.

Italy’s Meloni criticises US war on Iran as part of dangerous trend

Italy's Prime Minister ‌Giorgia Meloni on Wednesday delivered her strongest criticism yet of the U.S.-Israeli war on Iran, describing it as part of a growing and dangerous trend of interventions "outside the scope of international law".

Trump administration must make New York tunnel payments, appeals court rules

The U.S. federal government must keep making payments ​on the $16 billion New York Hudson Tunnel after an appeals court on Wednesday rejected the Trump administration's ‌bid to halt paying for the project.

Bumble shares soar as turnaround efforts power upbeat quarterly revenue

Bumble on Wednesday reported fourth-quarter revenue above estimates as the dating app operator began to see early benefits from a ​broad turnaround plan, sending its shares soaring about 20% in extended trading.

Dubai drags Gulf markets lower as Iran war risks weigh

Most Gulf equities erased early advances to finish lower on Wednesday, led by a sharp decline in ​Dubai, as investors stayed cautious over inflation and growth risks stemming from the U.S.-Israeli war against Iran.

Auburn boosts resume with comeback win over Mississippi State

NASHVILLE - Thanks to Kevin Overton's 22 points, five assists and four rebounds, Auburn boosted its NCAA Tournament hopes with a 79-61 win over Mississippi State in the ​first round of the Southeastern Conference tournament on Wednesday.

Kremlin says Britain was involved in Ukraine's missile strike on Russia

The Kremlin on Wednesday accused British specialists of involvement in a deadly ​Ukrainian strike on the Russian city of Bryansk that ‌used British Storm Shadow missiles and said it would take Britain's role "into account".

OpenAI plans to launch its Sora video tool in ChatGPT, The Information reports

OpenAI plans to soon launch its AI video generator Sora ​in ChatGPT, The Information reported ‌on Tuesday, citing people familiar with the matter.

Pain at the pumps will ease in a month or two, billionaire Catsimatidis says

Consumers will get relief from the rapid ​increases in fuel prices at the pumps in a month or ‌two, John Catsimatidis, the billionaire owner of a Pennsylvania refinery and New York supermarket chains, told Reuters in an interview on Tuesday.

Tesla's China-made EV sales jump 91% in February on low comparison

Sales of Tesla's China-made electric vehicle rose ​for a fourth month in a row in February, ‌as a low comparison base from last year outweighed headwinds from seasonal factors.

Alcaraz powers into Indian Wells quarter-finals

World number one Carlos Alcaraz continued his dominant run at Indian Wells, beating Norway's Casper Ruud to reach the quarter-finals in the California desert.

Eli Lilly to invest $3 billion in China, seeks approval for weight loss pill

Eli Lilly plans to invest $3 billion in China over the next decade, which ​will help build production capacity for its experimental ‌type-2 diabetes and obesity treatment orforglipron, the U.S. drugmaker said in a statement on Wednesday.

ECB policymakers acknowledge war risk, promise to keep inflation in check

European Central Bank policymakers acknowledged on Wednesday the economic ​risk from surging oil prices and promised swift action if they thought higher inflation was at risk of getting entrenched.

US February budget deficit flat at $308 billion, tariff revenues not yet hit by court ruling

The U.S. budget deficit for February was nearly flat with a year earlier at $308 billion as growth ​in receipts and outlays was largely even, with receipts from President Donald Trump's ‌tariffs not yet reflecting the U.S. Supreme Court's ruling against many of his duties last month.

Jake Oettinger, Stars hold down Knights, run point streak to 13

Jake Oettinger made 26 saves as the Dallas Stars extended their point streak to 13 games with a 2-1 victory over the visiting Vegas Golden Knights ​on Tuesday night.

Stefan Vaaks sinks eight 3s as Providence rallies to vanquish Butler

NEW YORK -- Stefan Vaaks scored a career-best 28 points and hit a career-high ​eight 3-pointers as ninth-seed Providence overcame a 16-point deficit in the first half for a 91-81 ‌victory over eighth-seeded Butler Wednesday in the opening round of the Big East tournament.

Brilliant Bodo/Glimt beat Sporting Lisbon 3-0 in Champions League last-16 first leg

Another stellar display on their artificial home turf at the Aspmyra Stadium gave Norway's Bodo/Glimt a 3-0 win over Sporting Lisbon in the first leg of their ​Champions League last 16 tie on Wednesday.

Astrophysicists figure out what caused a super-bright supernova

A supernova - the explosion marking the end of a massive star's life - is one of the brightest cosmic events, usually about a billion times more luminous than the sun. But some - a small ​fraction - are even brighter than that, 10 to 100 times more luminous. These are called superluminous supernovas.

Anthropic has strong case against Pentagon blacklisting, legal experts say

Anthropic's lawsuit challenging its Pentagon blacklisting is likely to test the reach of an obscure law aimed at guarding military systems against sabotage, and legal experts say the artificial intelligence lab appears to have a strong case that President Donald Trump's administration overstepped.

Predators pick up crucial comeback win over Kraken

Ryan Ufko scored his first career NHL goal and Juuse Saros made a season-high 43 saves as the Nashville Predators rallied for a 4-2 victory against the host ​Seattle Kraken on Tuesday night.

FBI opens first Ecuador office in fight against drug trafficking

The United States has opened its ​first Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) office ‌in Ecuador, the U.S. Embassy in Quito said on Wednesday.

Indian shares end lower as Mideast war, volatile oil hit sentiment

Indian benchmark shares slid on Wednesday as the escalating Middle East war and choppy oil prices fanned worries ​about their potential impact on inflation and growth.

USMNT chooses Irvine, Calif., for World Cup base

The U.S. men's national team will set up its World Cup training base at Great Park Sports Complex in Irvine, Calif., this summer.

Indian fintech firm Cred gets payment aggregator nod from central bank

India's Cred, backed by ​Tiger Global and ‌Peak XV, has received approval from the ​country's central ​bank to operate as ⁠a payment aggregator, ​the fintech firm ​said on Wednesday.

Turkey's Erdogan says Iran war must stop before whole region dragged in

Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan ‌said on Wednesday that the war in Iran must be stopped before the whole Middle East region is "thrown into the fire", adding that diplomacy must be given a chance.

Prices for new cars have soared. Here’s one big reason why.

The U.S. car business is grappling with a stubborn affordability problem, one that threatens to relegate more Americans to the used-car lot and leave automakers vulnerable to lower-priced rivals.

Alexis Lafreniere's hat trick sparks Rangers in shutout of Flames

Alexis Lafreniere netted a hat trick and goaltender Jonathan Quick recorded his 65th career shutout as the host New York Rangers beat ​the struggling Calgary Flames 4-0 on Tuesday.

Italy's MPS, Mediobanca approve merger plans after boardroom crisis

Italian banks ‌Monte dei Paschi di Siena (MPS) and Mediobanca have approved steps toward a full merger, after tensions among shareholders and directors over the plan led the MPS board to vote against retaining its CEO.

Higher oil clouds Wall Street's sunny earnings outlook

U.S. companies face structurally higher oil prices this year even if the Iran war ends soon, meaning investors may need to rethink those sunny 2026 corporate earnings forecasts.

Orlando City SC part ways with coach Oscar Pareja

Orlando City SC and head coach Oscar Pareja mutually have agreed to part ways, effective immediately, the team announced on Wednesday.

Exclusive: ECB will react if Iran war pushes up inflation, Nagel says

The European ​Central Bank will move quickly and decisively if more expensive fuel ‌due to the Iran war feeds into durably higher euro zone inflation, ECB policymaker Joachim Nagel told Reuters.

Anduril to acquire space surveillance firm ExoAnalytic eyeing more Golden Dome capabilities

Anduril Industries on Wednesday said it has signed a definitive ‌agreement to acquire ExoAnalytic Solutions, a national security company specializing in space sensing and awareness and missile defense.

Swiss close Tehran embassy, but maintain open line between US, Iran

Switzerland is temporarily closing its ‌embassy in Tehran due to the war in the Middle ​East and increasing security ​risks, the foreign office said ⁠on Wednesday.

'Grateful' James Harden leads Cavaliers into battle with Magic

Cleveland Cavaliers point guard James Harden reached another career milestone, becoming the ninth member of the 29,000-point club Monday against the Philadelphia 76ers.

Ukraine says it faces 'systematic pressure' from IPC at Winter Games

Ukraine's National Paralympic Committee (NPC) accused the International Paralympic Committee (IPC) and Milano Cortina 2026 organisers of putting "systematic pressure" on its delegation, citing curbs on flags, team briefings and athlete accessories.

AMD CEO to meet Samsung chief in South Korea amid race for AI memory chips, paper says

Advanced Micro Devices' CEO Lisa Su will meet Samsung Electronics Chairman Jay Y. Lee ​in South Korea next week to discuss ‌cooperation on securing supplies of high-bandwidth memory used in artificial intelligence chipsets, the Maeil Business Newspaper said.

Israel sees no certainty Iran’s government will fall despite war

Israeli officials in closed discussions have acknowledged there is no certainty the war against Iran will lead to a collapse of its clerical government, a senior Israeli official told Reuters, with no sign ​of an Iranian uprising amid the bombardment.

Vietnam fuel prices rise further as government taps stabilisation fund

Gasoline and diesel prices in Vietnam continued to rise on Wednesday, the trade ​ministry said, even though the government tapped ‌its fuel price stabilisation fund to curb the increases brought about by the U.S.-Israeli war on Iran.

China is rebuilding its grip on North Korea. Is Kim Jong Un ready to oblige?

Growing trade ties and new border infrastructure show Beijing is drawing Pyongyang back into its orbit.

Sea drones target oil tankers in the Middle East as conflict risks widen

Naval drones have been used in at least two attacks on oil ​tankers in the Gulf region since war erupted between the U.S., Israel and Iran, according to maritime authorities and analysts, demonstrating ‌a dangerous new threat in the key shipping lane.

Trump's portrayal of migrants as criminals may incite hate crimes, UN racism body warns

The United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination on Wednesday warned about "derogatory ​and dehumanizing language" used by U.S. President Donald Trump when ‌referring to migrants.

Poland has one-off chance to use gold profits for defence, central bank chief says

Poland has a one-off chance to use unrealised profit ​on gold reserves to finance military spending, ‌National Bank of Poland Governor Adam Glapinski said on Wednesday, adding that the government has expressed "zero interest" ​in the proposal however.

Fact Check: Video shows fight in Pakistan court, not among councillors in Birmingham

A video shows a fight in a court building in Pakistan, not during a meeting of Birmingham City Council in Britain, contrary to widely ​viewed online posts.

Drones hit east Congo's biggest city, killing French aid worker, rebels and UN say

Drone strikes hit Goma in east Congo ​on Wednesday, killing at least three people including a French aid worker, the first ‌such attack in the city since AFC/M23 rebels seized it last year, according to the group and the U.N.

French inflation to remain low despite Iran war, central bank chief says

Inflation in France is expected to remain low, even though the war in ​Iran may lead to slightly higher prices and ‌lower growth globally, Bank of France governor Francois Villeroy de Galhau said on Wednesday.

WhatsApp launches parent-managed accounts for pre-teens amid safety concerns

Meta Platforms-owned WhatsApp said on Wednesday it would allow parents to ​create accounts for pre-teens, restricted to messaging ‌and calling, amid rising global concerns about the impact of social media and chat apps on children.

WNBA, players union conclude overnight meeting without new CBA

A meeting between WNBA representatives and the players association ended early Wednesday morning without a deal on a new collective bargaining agreement, multiple outlets reported.

Champions Bengaluru to host Hyderabad in IPL 2026 opener

Indian Premier League champions Royal Challengers Bengaluru will start the season against Sunrisers Hyderabad at the ​Chinnaswamy Stadium on March 28 after the Indian ‌cricket board on Wednesday announced the schedule for the first phase of the campaign.

Canadian pension fund HOOPP says it has the capital to invest in Canada, awaits Ottawa's plan

Canadian pension fund Healthcare of Ontario ‌Pension Plan (HOOPP) is ready to invest capital in Canadian infrastructure and other nation-building projects outlined by Prime Minister Mark Carney several months ago, but is waiting for Ottawa to propose a plan, the fund's chief investment officer ​said in an interview.

How many ships have been attacked in the Gulf since start of Iran war?

The U.S.-Israeli war on Iran has threatened Gulf ports and disrupted global trade through the Strait of Hormuz, a vital waterway through which roughly a fifth of the world's oil and liquefied natural gas normally passes.

TCU on quest for 3rd season victory over Oklahoma State

TCU is bringing plenty of momentum into the Big 12 tournament as it faces Oklahoma State in the second round on Wednesday night in Kansas City, Mo.

German inflation confirmed at 2.0% in February

German inflation ​eased slightly in ‌February to 2.0%, the ​federal statistics ​office said on ⁠Wednesday, confirming ​preliminary data.

Israel strikes apartment building in central Beirut, Lebanese state media say

Israeli strikes targeted an ​apartment building in central Beirut ‌on Wednesday, Lebanese state media said, marking the second strike in ​the city in recent ​days.

"We are having a tremendous impact," Trump says in G7 call after IEA decision on oil stocks

U.S. President Donald Trump praised the "tremendous impact" of decisions ​being made on Wednesday as ‌leaders of the Group of Seven Nations met to discuss war in Iran ​and its economic consequences, ​according to a short videoclip shared ⁠by the French presidency.

Bodo/Glimt no longer a surprise as Champions League rollercoaster continues

The football world may have been surprised by another giant-killing performance by Arctic minnows Bodo/Glimt, but for coach Kjetil Knutsen, their 3-0 thrashing of Sporting on Wednesday was ​just another step in their amazing Champions League journey.

Sweden's Stegra seeks to raise over $2.3 billion, daily DI reports

Swedish startup Stegra must raise more than 2 billion euros ($2.3 billion) to ​complete construction of its green steel plant, ‌more than double its previous estimate, business daily Dagens Industri reported on Wednesday, citing unnamed sources.

Afghanistan-SL series in UAE postponed amid Middle East crisis

The limited-overs series between Afghanistan and Sri Lanka scheduled for March ​in the United Arab Emirates has been ‌postponed due to the crisis in the Middle East, the Afghanistan Cricket Board (ACB) announced on Wednesday.

Canadian dollar edges lower as higher oil price fails to spur currency

The Canadian dollar edged lower against its U.S. counterpart ‌on Wednesday as the greenback notched broad-based gains and investors gave the loonie little credit for recent gains in crude oil.

Victor Wembanyama's 39-point double-double leads Spurs past Celtics

Victor Wembanyama scored 39 points, hitting a career-high-tying eight 3-pointers, and added 11 rebounds to lead the rising San Antonio Spurs to a 125-116 victory over the short-handed Boston ​Celtics on Tuesday in a battle between two of the top NBA teams.

Peruvian gas pipeline to be fixed this weekend, Balcazar says

Peruvian President Jose Balcazar said on Tuesday ​that repairs to the country's main natural gas ‌pipeline should be finished on Friday, allowing natural gas supply to normalize this weekend and potentially bringing the country's ​worst energy crisis in two decades to a ​close.

Only Trump can approve possible US participation in oil release, says Burgum

U.S. Interior ​Secretary Doug Burgum on ‌Wednesday welcomed the International Energy Agency's move to release ​400 million barrels ​of oil, but said only ⁠President Donald Trump ​could approve participation by ​Washington in such a move.

Revolut gets full UK banking licence after years-long wait

Revolut, Europe's most valuable start-up, said on Wednesday it had received regulatory approval ‌to launch a British bank, allowing it to compete head-to-head with high street lenders in areas such as current accounts and consumer lending.

Greece caps profit margins on fuel, supermarkets to avert profiteering

Greece on Wednesday announced a cap on profit margins on fuel and products on supermarket shelves for three months to avert speculation from ​rising energy prices triggered by the U.S.-Israeli war on Iran.

Anthony Roy scores 24 to lead Oklahoma State past Colorado

Anthony Roy poured in 24 points, Christian Coleman impressed with 17 points and 14 rebounds and 14-seed Oklahoma State went on to a 92-83 ​victory over 11-seed Colorado in the first round of the ‌Big 12 tournament Tuesday night at the T-Mobile Center in Kansas City, Mo.

Hawks extend streak to seven with late spree against Mavs

Jalen Johnson scored 13 of his 27 points in the fourth quarter to help the Atlanta Hawks to a 124-112 win over the ​visiting Dallas Mavericks for their seventh straight win.

US to release 172 million barrels of oil from strategic petroleum reserve

The U.S. will ​release 172 million barrels of oil from its strategic ‌petroleum reserve in a bid to reduce oil prices that have soared due to supply shocks from the U.S.-Israeli war on ​Iran, U.S. Energy Secretary Chris Wright said on ​Wednesday.

Zoox and Uber tie up to deploy robotaxis on ride-hailing network

Uber Technologies signed a ‌multi-year partnership to deploy Zoox's purpose-built robotaxis to its platform, the companies said on Wednesday, marking the latter's first venture with a third-party ride-hailing service.

Iran has laid about a dozen mines in Strait of Hormuz, sources say

Iran has deployed about a dozen mines in ​the Strait of Hormuz, two sources familiar with the matter ‌said, in a move likely to complicate the reopening of the narrow waterway, an important route for shipping oil and liquefied natural gas.

Nvidia to invest $2 billion in neocloud Nebius amid AI data center push

Nvidia said on Wednesday it will invest $2 billion in artificial intelligence ​cloud company Nebius , adding to the leading chipmaker's growing list of ‌investments in AI firms and data center infrastructure.

Trading Day: Oil and yields up, up, and away

Oil prices rose sharply on Wednesday despite a record release of global crude reserves, stoking inflation fears and lifting two-year Treasury yields to the highest since September. The weight on stocks was too much, and Wall Street ended mostly lower.

IEA to recommend release of strategic oil stocks on Iran war, sources say

The release ​would exceed 100 ​million barrels over the first ​month.