Nepal’s early vote count puts ex-rapper’s party ahead | CNN

World Asia

# Nepal’s early vote count puts ex-rapper’s party ahead

Story by Reuters

PUBLISHED Mar 6, 2026, 3:04 AM ET

Balendra Shah, popularly known as Balen, waits to cast his vote as the prime ministerial candidate of the Rastriya Swatantra Party during Nepal's early election in Kathmandu, Nepal, on March 5, 2026.

Rojan Shrestha/NurPhoto/Getty Images

Asia Music

See all topics

Facebook Tweet Email Link Threads

Link Copied!

Follow

Rapper-turned-politician Balendra Shah’s party gained leads in early counting in Nepal’s general election, far outpacing his other rivals, including the country’s former ​prime minister who was forced to resign after a historic ‌youth-led uprising last year.

Shah, 35, former mayor of the capital city of Kathmandu, has dominated the race to become Nepal’s PM during the campaign, gaining popularity across the ​country.

Shah’s centrist Rastriya Swatantra Party, which was founded three years ​ago, was leading in 37 seats while former Prime Minister ⁠K P Sharma Oli’s Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist-Leninist - UML) was ​leading in three, early counting trends from the election commission showed on ​Friday morning.

The centrist Nepali Congress led by 49-year-old Gagan Thapa, the country’s oldest party, was leading in five seats.

Results are likely to be clear by Friday evening or ​Saturday, officials said.

Out of a total 275 seats in Nepal’s lower ​house of parliament, counting was in progress for 165 seats that are elected ‌by ⁠direct election, while the remaining 110 will follow a system of proportional representation.

Shah drew large crowds during his election campaign, connecting with legions of young voters clamouring for change on the ground and online, even ​as he took ​on Oli, 74, ⁠on his home turf in the Jhapa 5 constituency along the Indian border.

Perched between China and India, ​the country of 30 million people has been plagued ​for ⁠decades by political instability, crippling a largely agrarian economy and worsening unemployment – structural issues compounded by rampant corruption.

The long-festering malaise erupted into street demonstrations last ⁠September, ​triggered by a social media ban, that ​brought thousands onto the streets, leading to clashes and fatalities that forced the resignation of ​Oli.

Asia Music

See all topics

Facebook Tweet Email Link Threads

Link Copied!

Follow

Scan the QR code to download the CNN app on Google Play.

Scan the QR code to download the CNN app from the Apple Store.