Will Trump be impeached before midterms? What the odds say

USA TODAY NETWORK

Adding to the mounting calls for Donald Trump's impeachment is a midterm election candidate promising to vote to impeach the president, if he's elected. Here's what what to know about impeaching Trump again and the 2026 midterms predictions, odds.

Calls for the president's impeachment include multiple petitions, organized protests and lawmakers, such as Rep. Al Green, who has already sponsored multiple house resolutions to get Trump impeached.

The president expressed his own impeachment fears in front of House Republicans last month, when Trump warned, "You got to win the midterms because if we don't win the midterms, it's just going to be — I mean, they'll find a reason to impeach me. I'll get impeached."

Trump was impeached twice during his first term and acquitted in the Senate both times. Although a third impeachment would likely face significant political barriers in the current Republican-controlled House and Senate, the 2026 Midterm Elections could change that.

Is Trump getting impeached? Trump impeachment odds

President Donald Trump is not currently being impeached, despite mounting calls by Democratic lawmakers and Trump opponents.

Impeachment requires a majority vote in the House to approve charges against a government official for treason, bribery or other serious abuse of power or misconduct, and then a two-thirds majority in the Senate to convict and remove the official from office.

A third impeachment would likely face significant political barriers due to the current Republican-controlled House and Senate at this time.

However, a Democratic win in the House in this year's midterms elections, would give them control of one of the congressional branches in government and make it harder for Trump to pass his agenda, result in a likely push back on Republican cuts in social spending or requiring more deals when it comes time to raise the debt ceiling, or pushing for impeachment.

According to the Polymarket, betting odds show a 14% chance that Trump will be impeached by end of 2026. Meanwhile Kalshi betting odds show a 5% chance he'll be impeached by Jun. 1, 2026; 14% chance by Jan. 1, 2027 and 65% chance by Jan. 1, 2028.

When are the midterms?

The midterm elections are Tuesday, Nov. 3, 2026.

Who is winning the midterms? 2026 midterm election predictions, odds

According to the latest RealClearPolling' generic Congressional voting polls, 47.5% said they'd vote for a Democratic Party candidate, 42.9% said they'd vote Republican.

In the Polymarket betting odds on who will win the 2026 midterms, 44% favor a Republican win for the Senate and Democratic win for the House. Currently, the Republican party controls both the Senate and the House.

- 15% favor a Republican sweep of the House and Senate in midterms 2026
- 40% favor a Democratic sweep of the House and Senate in midterms 2026
- 60% favor a Republican Party win for the Senate in midterms 2026
- 85% favor a Democratic Party win for the House in midterms 2026

Note: Polls and odds are constantly changing. These numbers reflect polling and odds as of 2:00 p.m. Thursday, Feb. 26, 2026.

Maria Francis is a Pennsylvania-based journalist with the Mid-Atlantic Connect Team