Reuters on 2026-02-28 reported in “UK forces join 'regional defensive operations' as US, Israel strike Iran” that British Prime Minister Keir Starmer, after attending a COBRA emergency meeting that morning and speaking with the leaders of France and Germany, said UK forces were joining “coordinated regional defensive operations” in line with international law to protect British interests and allies, while explicitly not taking part in the strikes by the United States and Israel; he said Britain had raised protections for British bases and personnel to their “highest level,” moved embassy staff from Tel Aviv to another location in Israel on Friday, February 27, 2026, and issued a notice advising against all travel to Israel and the Palestinian territories while urging citizens to seek shelter in Gulf states. Starmer, speaking from 10 Downing Street, described the Iranian regime as “utterly abhorrent,” said Iran must refrain from further strikes, “give up their weapons programmes,” and cease “violence and repression against the Iranian people,” and stressed that the conflict must not escalate into a wider regional war and that “the Iranian people deserve the right to determine their own future”; Reuters credited Sam Tabahriti. In the companion Reuters story “Germany, France and UK tell Iran to stop attacks in region” on 2026-02-28, French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Friedrich Merz, and Starmer issued a joint statement condemning Iranian attacks in the strongest terms, saying Germany, France and Britain did not participate in the Saturday strikes, were in close contact with the U.S., Israel, and partners in the region, and were committed to regional stability and the protection of civilian life; they urged the Iranian leadership to “resume negotiations” and “seek a negotiated solution,” reiterated that Iran should end its nuclear programme, curb its ballistic missile program, refrain from destabilizing activity in the region, and cease “violence and repression against its own people,” and said the Iranian people must be allowed to determine their future. Reuters also reported on 2026-02-28 in “US-Israeli strikes kill Khamenei and Iranian retaliation shakes Gulf - As it happened” that U.S. President Donald Trump had previously told Israel not to repeat strikes on Iranian natural gas infrastructure, yet Israel launched a fresh wave of attacks a day later, sharply escalating the war and shaking the Gulf. Reuters credited Kylie MacLellan, Vanessa Balintec, and Sam Tabahriti; the report said Trump had authorized major air strikes with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, the initial campaign used Tomahawk cruise missiles from US Navy Arleigh Burke-class destroyers before F/A-18 and F-35 fighter jets, and later Iranian retaliation sent missiles and drones toward Bahrain, Iraq, Kuwait, Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates, with the UAE Ministry of Defense intercepting “137 ballistic missiles and 194 drones” and the U.S. Navy’s 5th Fleet base in Bahrain reportedly hit. Reuters noted that Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei was confirmed dead, that several senior Iranian officials including Ali Shamkhani, General Mohammad Pakpour, and Gholamreza Rezaian were also reported killed, and that Iran threatened a “regret-inducing punishment” while Trump replied it “better not.” Reuters’ “Iranian Supreme Leader is dead, Trump says” on 2026-02-28 said Trump claimed Khamenei’s death gave Iranians their “greatest chance” to “take back” their country, that Iran’s interim council would include President Masoud Pezeshkian, Judiciary Chief Gholamhossein Mohseni Ejei, and a Guardian Council member chosen by the Expediency Council, and that the Iranian Revolutionary Guard threatened its “most-intense offensive operation” ever against Israel and American bases; the piece also said the Iranian government announced “40 days” of mourning, U.S. Ambassador Mike Waltz told the U.N. Security Council Iran could not have a nuclear weapon, France’s Jérôme Bonnafont criticized Tehran’s lack of transparency, and satellite photos from Airbus showed Khamenei’s downtown Tehran compound heavily bombed. Reuters’ “US and Israel attack Iran — as it happened” on 2026-02-28 similarly reiterated Khamenei’s death and the “regret-inducing punishment” exchange, with Trump saying “better not,” and Reuters’ other “as it happened” report on 2026-02-28 said the Iran war had been “sharply” escalated by the U.S.-Israeli offensive. ### USA TODAY’s 2026-02-28 breaking-news roundup, “USA TODAY - Breaking News and Latest News Today,” bundled several unrelated headlines: the Supreme Court was set to address whether President Trump can deport migrants coming from dangerous conditions; Democrats referred Kristi Noem to the DOJ for investigation into perjury; Trump’s revelation of Rep. Neal Dunn’s terminal diagnosis caused an awkward moment; Oklahoma led the March Madness snubs; Costco recalled a pre-made meal kit over a salmonella risk; the article pointed to “President Trump says US could soon reach deal with Cuba”; there was a drone attack that ignited a fuel tank fire at Dubai airport; and it mentioned Michael B. Jordan at In-N-Out with an Oscar, Amazon’s Big Spring sale, Timothée Chalamet’s ballet-and-opera controversy, and Susie Wiles’ breast cancer diagnosis. Its twin USA TODAY feed on 2026-02-28, “USA TODAY - Breaking News and Latest News Today,” repeated that Trump said the US could soon reach a deal with Cuba, that a drone attack at Dubai International Airport caused a fuel tank fire, that Leonardo DiCaprio made a rare public appearance, and that readers were asking whether they could get a refund for a missed flight while standing in line. ### Reuters’ 2026-02-28 “Breaking International News & Views” reported that two Iranian sources said Mojtaba Khamenei, the son of Iran’s late Supreme Leader, survived U.S. and Israeli air strikes. ### In “U.S., Israel Begin 'Major Combat Operations' in Iran as Trump Calls for Regime Change,” dated 2026-02-28, Trump announced in a Truth Social video that the U.S. campaign was “Operation Epic Fury,” said the U.S. and Israel had launched “pre-emptive” strikes, and linked the assault to the 1979 hostage crisis, the 1983 Marine barracks bombing in Lebanon, proxy attacks on U.S. forces in the Middle East, and Hamas’s October 7, 2023 attack on Israel; he omitted the 2015 nuclear deal and demanded that the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, Iran’s armed forces, and police “lay down your weapons and have complete immunity, or face certain death,” then told the Iranian people to “take over your government.” The piece said Trump was monitoring from Mar-a-Lago with Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth and Joint Chiefs Chairman Gen. Dan Caine, Israel Katz announced a pre-emptive attack, nearly “60” students were killed in an Israeli strike on a girls’ school in Minab according to Iran’s state-run news agency, Abbas Araghchi said Iran would target U.S. bases in Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, and Bahrain, Kuwait, Jordan, and the UAE said they intercepted ballistic missiles, the Emirati military reported one civilian death of Asian nationality from debris, Bahrain said the U.S. Navy’s 5th Fleet was struck, and Araghchi spoke from Tehran, called regime change a “mission impossible,” said Tehran was targeting U.S. military bases but not Americans in their land, and said there was “no communication” with the U.S. The article also noted a senior U.S. official told CNN there were “a series of potential off-ramps,” that Fox News reported staffing at Bahrain’s 5th Fleet base had recently been reduced, and that an Israeli defense official said the operation had been planned for months with Washington. ### Fortune’s 2026-02-28 article “Iran is now on ‘death ground’ amid existential threat from U.S. attacks and could ‘go big’ in retaliation, former NATO commander warns,” by Jason Ma at “12:17 PM ET,” said Iran was on “death ground” after U.S. attacks and Trump’s call for regime change, that Israel’s Iron Dome was pictured intercepting projectiles over Tel Aviv, and that experts warned Iran might “go big” in retaliation against U.S.-Israeli airstrikes; the image credit was Jack Guez / AFP via Getty Images. ### The 2026-02-28 Reuters note “Reuters | Breaking International News & Views” said two Iranian sources told Reuters that Mojtaba Khamenei survived the U.S.-Israeli assault. ### The article “Iran’s Ayatollah Ali Khamenei is killed in Israeli strike, ending 36-year iron rule” on 2026-02-28 said Khamenei, born in Mashhad in July 1939, died on Saturday, February 28, 2026, ending his 36-year rule after succeeding Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini in 1989; it recounted his 1981 assassination attempt that cost him the use of his right arm, his 2009 intervention to ensure Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s victory and the mass protests brutally crushed afterward, the late-December 2025 protests that, according to the Human Rights Activists News Agency, left “more than 7,000” dead, his distrust of the U.S. despite backing the 2015 Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action via secret 2013 negotiations, Trump’s 2018 withdrawal from that deal, the June 21, 2025 U.S. airstrikes on three nuclear enrichment sites that Trump said were “completely and totally obliterated,” the 2023 Hamas attack and Hezbollah’s rocket fire the next day, Bashar al-Assad’s flight to Russia in early January 2025, and Khamenei’s robust ballistic missile program; it quoted experts from the Middle East Institute, the International Crisis Group, Chatham House, and said 40 days of mourning were declared. ### The Reuters item “US strikes Iran: Trump rolls the dice as fears of wider war surge,” by Susan Page of USA TODAY, said public support for war was limited: a University of Maryland poll of 1,004 adults conducted February 5-9, 2026 found “21%” favored a U.S. attack, “49%” opposed it, Republicans were split with “40%” for and “35%” unsure, and the margin of error was “3.5 percentage points”; the article also described Iran’s arsenal of drones, thousands of missiles, and more than “600,000” active-duty forces, noted prior bombings in Somalia, Iraq, Yemen, Nigeria, Syria, and Venezuela as examples of Trump’s second-term use of force, and quoted Trump warning “Sometimes you have to use force” and saying he was “not happy” with his own diplomacy. ### CNN Politics’ “Trump deliberated on Iran for weeks. His ‘massive and ongoing’ operation comes with acknowledgment US lives could be lost” said Trump’s operation was “massive and ongoing,” that he watched from Mar-a-Lago, that Iran retaliated against the Bahrain naval base, that envoys Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner had held three rounds of indirect talks, that Trump told Iranians to “take over your government,” and that he had warned Iran might soon have a missile able to hit the U.S. though intelligence doubted it. ### The Washington Post story “Push from Saudis, Israel helped move Trump to attack Iran” said Israel and Saudi Arabia conducted a weeks-long lobbying campaign that helped persuade Trump to launch the wide-ranging assault aimed at toppling Ali Khamenei, who had held power for nearly four decades. ### CNN/Reuters-style analysis “Trump’s new Iran attack opens up big global risks” warned that the conflict threatened Bahrain, Qatar, and the UAE, foreign direct investment, tourism, oil supply, and inflation; Morgan Stanley estimated disruptions could cut global supplies by up to “3 million barrels a day,” Saudi Arabia’s spare capacity was “2 million daily barrels,” crude had already been around “$72 a barrel,” and Houthi retaliation could reopen Red Sea shipping risks and keep interest rates higher for longer; it said Trump declared, “The hour of your freedom is at hand,” after 47 years of hostility, and that the previous 12-day war in June 2025 had weakened Iran but left open whether a new government would be less hostile. ### CNN Politics’ “Congress to vote on Trump’s war powers in aftermath of Iran strikes” on 2026-02-28 said Representatives Thomas Massie and Warren Davidson and Senator Rand Paul opposed the unauthorized strikes, Ro Khanna called them a “slap in the face” and compared the vote to 2002 Iraq authorization, Speaker Mike Johnson and Senate Majority Leader John Thune backed Trump, Marco Rubio and CIA Director John Ratcliffe briefed the “Gang of Eight,” Don Bacon said the Iranian regime had killed about “2,000 Americans” and he wanted “Bomb them,” and Democrats worked with Massie while at least “three” pro-Israel Democrats opposed the rebuke. ### Fox News’ “Operation Epic Fury: America strikes Iran — now the real test of US strategy begins” compared the operation to June 2025’s Operation Midnight Hammer, when “seven B-2 stealth bombers” and a guided-missile submarine were used and Trump claimed “complete and total obliteration,” but intelligence said Iran’s program had been set back “months, not years”; the article warned the Strait of Hormuz carries roughly “one-fifth of global petroleum,” that Iran’s parliament voted to close it and then backed down, that the regime had shaken but not fallen after December 28, 2025 protests, that Khamenei was “eighty-six,” that the Council on Foreign Relations saw possible outcomes of continuity, IRGC dominance, or fragmentation, and that the MEK/NCRI had organized external networks but limited domestic legitimacy. ### The Reuters “as it happened” report on 2026-02-28, “US-Israeli strikes kill Khamenei and Iranian retaliation shakes Gulf,” said Trump had told Israel not to repeat strikes on natural gas infrastructure but Israel launched fresh attacks a day later; Reuters credited Kylie MacLellan, Vanessa Balintec, and Sam Tabahriti. ### Polymarket’s 2026-02-28 market “US x Iran ceasefire by...? Predictions & Odds | Polymarket” showed “$30,905,278” in total trading volume, with the “Yes” probability “13%” for a ceasefire by March 31,