China’s response to the Iran crisis was laid out in “China urges immediate ceasefire in Iran conflict | The Straits Times” on 2026-03-01, which said that in a February 28, 2026 statement China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs urged an immediate ceasefire, called on all sides to avoid escalation, resume dialogue and negotiation, and respect Iran’s sovereignty, security, and territorial integrity. At the United Nations Security Council emergency session on February 28, 2026, China’s envoy Fu Cong said protecting civilians was the “red line” that must not be crossed in armed conflict, and urged parties to fulfill obligations under international law and humanitarian law, warning against the indiscriminate use of force and civilian casualties while saying China was ready to work with the international community to promote peace and stability in the Middle East. The article also said the February 28, 2026 US-Israeli strikes on Iran targeted Iran’s military capability and that state media reported Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei was killed; meanwhile Cathay Group, the Hong Kong-based parent of Cathay Pacific Airways, suspended Middle East operations on February 28, 2026 because of regional tensions, suspending passenger flights to Dubai and Riyadh and freighter services via Al Maktoum International Airport in Dubai, and saying flights that typically passed over the affected area had been re-routed. China’s embassy in Israel on March 1, 2026 told Chinese citizens to evacuate to safer areas within Israel or leave for Egypt via the Taba border crossing. ### USA TODAY - Breaking News and Latest News Today, 2026-03-01, reported that the Pentagon identified four U.S. soldiers killed in the Iran war on Sunday; the soldiers were assigned to protect a base in Erbil, Iraq, and died when their infantry fighting vehicle was hit on Monday in an Iranian strike near Mehran in western Iran. The Department of Defense said final names had yet to be released. The piece also said more than 50,000 U.S. troops had been deployed to the Middle East in the past weeks amid escalating hostilities between the U.S. and Iran, and that U.S. airstrikes destroyed missile sites, command and control positions, and radar systems, according to military officials. ### “Trump’s Iran Operation Is the Opposite of a ‘One and Done’”, 2026-03-01, argued that the U.S.-Israel all-out attack on Iran began on the Saturday before publication and that President Donald Trump issued an early Saturday morning ultimatum to members of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard, the armed forces, and all police in Iran to lay down their weapons and have complete immunity or face certain death. The article said Trump claimed Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei was killed, described Iran’s closing of the Strait of Hormuz as choking global oil supplies, and noted fires reported raging on the night of February 28, 2026 in Bahrain, Dubai, and Abu Dhabi after Iranian counterattacks; a Bahraini security adviser said 14 Iranian drones struck the port facility housing the U.S. Fifth Fleet. Britain denied the United States use of a critical refueling facility at Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean, and Trump estimated the Iranian regime had slaughtered more than 30,000 protesters in January. A Western security official told The Washington Post that strikes on Iran’s intelligence service headquarters had killed at least four senior commanders and said the regime’s apparatus of repression was crumbling. U.S. Central Command said its rockets and missiles were intended to dismantle the Iranian regime’s security apparatus, while key European allies wanted a quick negotiated settlement; the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia were described as worried and wary, and Israel as the only passionate advocate among allies. The article referenced a Shahed UAV buzzing in videos from Bahrain, a poster of the beloved martyr Imam Hussein on the wall of the CIA’s Iran Operation Center nearly 20 years ago, Mark Fowler’s plea to craft a post-war strategy worthy of the Iranian people, David Ignatius’s near-miss with an Iranian car bomb at the American Embassy in Beirut about 35 minutes after he had been there on April 1, 1983, and Vali Nasr as the expert joining FP Live; it also quoted Trump saying the aging, infirm Ali Khamenei was killed, and that the U.S. had taken out two China-friendly leaders in two months while Beijing did little in response. ### “Iran live updates: Trump warns ‘more’ US combat deaths during conflict”, 2026-03-01, said U.S. Central Command confirmed three American service members killed and five seriously wounded, that Trump told The Atlantic on Sunday, March 1, 2026 “they want to talk” and said they should have done it sooner, and that he predicted combat operations could take “four weeks or less” and were “ahead of schedule” and evolving in a very positive way. The article reported a Reuters/Ipsos poll showing 27% approval of the strikes and 43% disapproval, with 56% saying Trump was too willing to use military force. It identified Masoud Pezeshkian as Iran’s President and said Khamenei was killed in joint U.S.-Israeli strikes. It said Senator Mark Warner of Virginia called the operation “a war of choice” and argued Trump needed congressional authorization, while Senator Andy Kim said the president looked like he was “making this up as he goes along.” Iranian counterattacks on U.S. bases and other targets had produced casualties or injuries in Bahrain, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates; the IRGC claimed the USS Abraham Lincoln was hit by four ballistic missiles, which U.S. Central Command denied, and the Iranian Red Crescent Society reported at least 200 killed and more than 700 injured in Iran. The report also said Iranian media claimed 60 to over 100 children were killed in an airstrike on a school in Minab, Pope Leo XIV warned in St. Peter’s Square of an “immense tragedy” if the “spiral of violence” continued, Vladimir Putin called Khamenei’s killing a “cynical murder” and a violation of international law, Ursula von der Leyen warned of a real “risk of further escalation,” Iran’s security chief Ali Larijani promised revenge and said an interim government would take charge before the Assembly of Experts chose a successor, and Trump said he had struck “more than 1,000 targets.” ### The Diplomat – Asia-Pacific Current Affairs Magazine’s “Were Foreign Nationals and Myanmar Rebel Groups Plotting an Attack Against India?”, published on 2026-03-21 and authored by Rajeev Bhattacharyya, said seven foreign citizens were arrested in March 2026 under India’s Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in connection with alleged links to Myanmar-based Ethnic Armed Organizations (EAOs) and a suspected plot involving an attack against India, while criticizing media reports as having “obscured more than they have illuminated.” ### CNN’s 2026-03-01 breaking-news roundup reported that on the fifth day of the war with Iran U.S. officials said there were no active negotiations despite Iranian intelligence sending word about possible talks, that Iranian bombers were two minutes from striking a U.S. air base before Qatari planes shot them down, that U.S. air defenses may not be able to intercept many Iranian drones, that the White House did not rule out being responsible for the bombing of an Iranian girls’ school, and that video showed a U.S. submarine striking an Iranian warship. It also said Trump and Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth made awkward comments about U.S. troop deaths, advisers were trying to mitigate a political nightmare, Trump opened a new rift with Europe, the rationale for striking Iran was already a mess and got worse, the U.S. had taken out two China-friendly leaders in two months, Iran-designed drones were being used against Iran itself, and a separate analysis on “the Iran war’s troubling missile math” stressed the numerical challenges. CNN also mentioned Apple’s cheapest-ever new MacBook, Oxford-based First Light Fusion building a star in a warehouse using inertial fusion, scientists finding sea levels were already much higher than previously thought, travel advisories and closed airports from Middle East air disruptions, Thom Tillis saying “I’m not grouchy, I’m just optimizing,” Zohran Mamdani denouncing U.S. and Israeli strikes, a U.S. anti-drug operation in Ecuador, the father of a school shooter being found guilty of murder and manslaughter, AI helping search for missing people in Mexico by rebuilding faces and identifying tattoos, pressure on a 16-year-old K-pop artist to undergo plastic surgery, the group “Golden” winning K-pop’s first Grammy, and frontrunners in a half marathon being taken the wrong way by a lead vehicle. ### “Trump Says Iran War to Last ‘Four Weeks or Less’ After Signaling Agreement to Talks - U.S. News”, 2026-03-01, by Ben Samuels, said Trump stated on Sunday, March 1, 2026 that the joint U.S.-Israel strikes on Iran would last “four weeks or less,” would continue until all shared objectives were achieved, and that this came after he signaled agreement to talks. ### “Trump’s Iran Operation Is the Opposite of a ‘One and Done’”, 2026-03-01, also said pro-government protesters gathered outside a mosque in Tehran on February 28, 2026 with Iranian national flags, that Trump specifically addressed the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, that the four Iranian counterattack locations were Bahrain, Dubai, Abu Dhabi, and Israel, and that he said the U.S. would help the Iranian people only if they toppled the regime. ### “John Healey warns Iran is ‘lashing out’ as missiles fire at Cyprus”, 2026-03-01, quoted British Defence Secretary John Healey saying the Iranian regime was “lashing out” in an increasingly indiscriminate and widespread way after more than 25 waves of Iranian ballistic missiles and drones hit targets in Israel, Bahrain, Qatar, the UAE, Kuwait, and Iraq; all UK military personnel in the Middle East were safe and accounted for, RAF Akrotiri in Cyprus housed Typhoons, F-35s, and hundreds of troops, about 300 British personnel were at the U.S. base in Bahrain and were within 200 metres of a strike, British troops in Iraq were within 400 metres of an Iranian missile strike, a British counter-drone unit shot down an Iranian drone heading toward a coalition base in Iraq, and UK forces were on the highest level of force protection. Healey said Britain played no part in the strikes on Iran, that UK operations from bases in Qatar and Cyprus were purely defensive, that Iranian attacks had hit hotels in Dubai and Bahrain and civilian airports in Kuwait, and that Britain remained focused on the goal that Iran should never have a nuclear weapon; he also said Britain was reinforcing regional stability, that the UK could not let Iran get a nuclear weapon, and declined to comment on reports that London had denied U.S. access to British bases worldwide. ### “US-Israel stikes on Iran: Tehran fired missiles towards UK bases in Cyprus, says defence secretary - The Times of India”, 2026-03-01, said Healey told Sky News and Trevor Phillips that Iran had fired two missiles in the direction of Cyprus, where the U.K. has military bases, and repeated that 300 British personnel were close to missile targets in Bahrain. It said the United Kingdom had ordered planes in the sky over the Middle East to carry out defensive operations, with UK planes flying from Qatar and Cyprus to protect against missiles or drones directed toward Qatar and Cyprus, that Iran’s retaliatory operation was called Truthful Promise 4, that Tehran had organized 20 terror plots on UK streets and supplied 50,000 drones to Russia for use in Ukraine, that the IRGC claimed to have hit a U.S. Fifth Fleet base and warship, and that Healey said everything the U.K. does is within international law while declining to comment on whether the U.S.-Israeli strikes were lawful; he also said the character of the Iranian regime could not be in doubt because of its menace to Britain and sponsorship of terror, and that few people would mourn Ayatollah Khamenei’s death, not least the family and friends of thousands of young protesters murdered by the regime. ### “UK planning to send warship to defend Cyprus military base, Times newspaper says - AL-Monitor”, 2026-03-03, reported that a Times newspaper story on March 3, 2026 said Defence Minister John Healey and senior military figures discussed sending HMS Duncan to defend the Royal Air Force Akrotiri base in Cyprus after an Iranian-made drone strike hit a runway at the base in the early hours of Monday; Reuters credited reporter Sarah Young and editor William James, while the Cyprus News Agency said France planned to send anti-missile and anti-drone systems to Cyprus. The Ministry of Defence did not immediately comment, and the purpose of the warship deployment was to defend RAF Akrotiri from Iranian attacks. ### “US Reports First War Deaths as Iran Strikes Expand Across Middle East - Bloomberg”, 2026-03-01, said the U.S. reported its first American deaths in the war with Iran as the conflict spread across several Middle Eastern countries and threatened to upend energy markets, with U.S. Central Command confirming three killed and five seriously wounded and giving no further detail. ### “Trump says war with Iran will continue until all ‘objectives are achieved’ - CBS News”, 2026-03-01, by Willie James Inman, said Trump declared combat operations would continue “in full force” until all objectives are achieved, and that the end depended on achieving those objectives rather than any fixed date. ### “US is sinking Iran’s Navy, Trump says”, 2026-03-01, reported Reuters saying Trump claimed the U.S. military had destroyed nine Iranian warships and largely destroyed Iran’s naval headquarters, while deploying B-2 stealth bombers with 2,000-lb bombs against hardened underground missile facilities; the U.S. military confirmed three servicemembers killed and five seriously wounded as Iran responded with hundreds of missile and drone attacks. ### Reuters’ 2026-03-01 briefing on the Iran war said the conflict was well into its third week and that recent military deployments gave Trump additional options as he weighed expanding U.S. operations. ### “What will happen to oil prices after Iran strikes?”, 2026-03-01, said analysts at TD Securities saw crude potentially materially above $100 per barrel if access through the Strait of Hormuz stayed limited, while petroleum analyst Patrick De Haan said oil closed Friday, February 27, 2026 at about $67