# Day 3 of the US-Israeli war with Iran

Updated 6:40 AM EST, Tue March 3, 2026

• War with Iran: President Donald Trump told CNN the “big wave” of the US attack on Iran is yet to come. Trump laid out his war objectives for reporters, saying he wanted to destroy Iran’s missile capabilities, annihilate its navy, end its nuclear ambitions and stop it arming militant groups.

• On the ground: Iran and its proxies are continuing to strike US allies in the Gulf, with the US Embassy in Saudi Arabia hit by suspected Iranian drones, booms heard in Iraq and sirens sounding over Bahrain. Israel, meanwhile, is striking Hezbollah targets in Beirut.

• Americans warned: The US State Department urged US citizens to leave the Middle East immediately. Trump told CNN “the biggest surprise” of the war has been Iran’s attacks against Arab countries in the region. Iran’s foreign minister said the “American people deserve better and should take back their country,” mirroring Trump’s repeated remarks to Iranians.

All catch up analysis

189 Posts

A fighter jet crashed near US base in Kuwait, CNN-verified footage shows

A fighter jet crashed over Kuwait near a United States air base, according to video geolocated by CNN that emerged online Monday.

The video shows a jet on fire and falling in a tailspin out of the sky.

The video suggests the jet came down within 10 kilometers (6.2 miles) of the US Ali Al Salem base in Kuwait.

It is unclear why the aircraft crashed nor which air force the plane belongs to.

The twin-engine fighter jet in the video is consistent with an F-15E, according to CNN analysis of the video.

CNN has reached out to CENTCOM and Kuwait’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs for comment.

This post has been updated.

Families living at a British military base on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus are being relocated after a one-way attack drone hit the site late Sunday night causing minimal damage.

The UK’s Ministry of Defense said the relocation of dependents was a “precautionary measure,” adding that the Royal Air Force Akrotiri airbase remains fully operational “protecting the safety of Britain and our interests.”

It comes after the UK boosted its military bases in Cyprus with enhanced defensive measures – including radar, counter-drone systems, F-35 jets and ground-based air defense – to support Middle East security and stability.

Any confirmed attack on a British military installation could become especially significant because under NATO Article 5, an attack on one member is considered an attack on all.

However the country would need to invoke Article 5 to get other NATO nations to join the fray.

Fresh blasts have been heard in Iran’s capital Tehran on Monday morning, and state media claim a deadly barrage of missiles struck the western city of Sanandaj.

Iran’s semi-official Tasnim news agency said residential areas of Sanandaj had been hit. Images published by Tasnim showed emergency services searching through the rubble of a badly damaged building.

Three people were killed in the strikes on Sanandaj, said state-affiliated news agency IRNA.

In Tehran, patients were evacuated from a hospital in the north of the city Sunday night after it was badly damaged in strikes, Iranian state media reported.

Footage posted by Iran’s state broadcaster IRIB shows the damaged exterior of the Gandhi Hospital, with debris and glass strewn in the street.

World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Ghebreyesus said the agency was working to verify the incident at Tehran’s Gandhi Hospital.

Hossein Kermanpour, spokesperson for Iran’s Health Ministry, said missiles also struck near a hospital in Ahvaz in the southwest of the country, and that patients there had to be moved out of the hospital too.

CNN cannot independently verify the reports.

The Israel Defense Forces said it had targeted “Iranian terrorist regime sites” in central Tehran overnight into Monday.

Israel and Hezbollah are trading blows as the war with Iran widens. CNN’s Jeremy Diamond reports.

A new front opens up in expanding Middle East conflict

Israel responded with airstrikes on southern Lebanon and its capital Beirut after Hezbollah fired rockets on northern Israel. Israeli military confirmed it struck “senior Hezbollah terrorists in the Beirut area” and a “central Hezbollah commander in southern Lebanon.” CNN’s Jeremy Diamond reports.

A major oil refinery in Kuwait was hit by falling shrapnel early Monday, according to state-run Kuwait News Agency.

Two workers at the Mina Al-Ahmadi petroleum plant were wounded in the blast and transferred to hospital with minor injuries, spokesperson Ghanem Al-Otaibi said in a press statement cited by the agency.

Production at the refinery - which according to the Kuwait National Petroleum Company has a capacity of 346,000 barrels per day - were not affected.

“Emergency teams began their duties immediately after the incident, activating the rapid response plan and taking all precautionary measures to ensure the safety of personnel and facilities, which sustained no material damage,” Al-Otaibi added.

In less than two months, United States President Donald Trump has taken out two of Beijing’s closest allies — threatening China’s oil supply in the process.

Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro was seized by the US in January. Now Iranian Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei is dead. Beyond robbing China of its strategic partners in South America and the Middle East, the two military actions have struck at something far more vital to Beijing: Oil.

Both nations supply most of their crude to China — more than half of Venezuela’s crude exports and nearly all of Iran’s shipped crude likely ended up in China last year, according to data analytics firm Kpler.

Together, their supplies accounted for about 15% of China’s oil imports, CNN’s calculations based on data from Columbia University’s Center on Global Energy Policy showed.

Rob Thummel, Portfolio Manager at Tortoise Capital counts China as a potential major loser in the Iran conflict because it produces far less oil than it consumes.

China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi has called the US-Israeli attack on Iran “unacceptable,” and condemned the “blatant killing of a sovereign leader and the incitement of regime change.” But Beijing has so far not commented on the potential economic impact.

Beyond oil supply disruptions, China and other Asian economies also face potential logistical challenges if the Strait of Hormuz — a critical shipping route for crude from countries including Saudi Arabia and Kuwait — is closed or disrupted.

Iran’s semi-official Mehr News Agency reported that a tanker, which was struck Sunday after attempting an “unauthorized passage through the Strait of Hormuz,” was sinking after sustaining damage.

Iran controls the Strait’s northern side and has previously threatened to choke off access to the waterway during conflicts with the US. Analysts warn that closing the Strait of Hormuz, or major disruptions there, would trigger a significant global energy crisis.

CNN’s David Goldman and Simone McCarthy contributed to this post.

The US Embassy in Kuwait released a warning to US citizens urging them to shelter in place amid continuing threats of missile and unmanned aerial vehicle attacks over the region.

“There is a continuing threat of missile and UAV attacks over Kuwait. Do not come to the Embassy. Take cover in your residence on the lowest available floor and away from windows. Do not go outside,” the US Department of State Consulate Affairs posted on X.

US embassy personnel are sheltering in place, the department said, urging US citizens to review security plans in case of an attack.

Loud bangs rang out over Kuwait earlier Monday local time as air defenses intercepted “hostile drones” approaching the country via “maritime routes,” state media reported.

Air defenses had successfully intercepted “the majority of drones” near the Rumaithiya and Salwa neighborhoods in the Hawalli Governorate, state media reported. The US Embassy is located in the Hawalli Governorate.

CNN’s Ross Adkin contributed reporting.

It’s been three days since the US and Israel began joint strikes on Iran, killing its supreme leader, a growing list of senior military and political figures, and over 150 girls at an elementary school.

Iran’s retaliation has been swift and expansive, with strikes targeting almost all of its neighbors, many of which are US-allied Gulf countries typically regarded as safe, luxury destinations for tourists and expats. We’ve reported on deaths and damage in the United Arab Emirates, Abu Dhabi, Iraq, Jordan, Qatar, Bahrain, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia.

At least three US service members were killed in Kuwait, with US President Trump warning that there may be many more deaths of service members as he cited Pentagon projections.

Trump said Sunday that the war may last four to five weeks.

Here are the latest developments:

- Travel paralysis: The attacks have triggered widespread travel delays, leaving nations scrambling to devise evacuation strategies for stranded citizens.
- Oil trade disruption hits markets: Oil futures surged in the first trades since the war, while stock futures fell.
- Succession questions: When asked whom he would like to see lead Iran, Trump told the New York Times: “I have three very good choices.” Trump told ABC News that candidates identified by the US who might take over Iran were killed in Saturday’s strike. Here’s who is leading the country right now.
- Diplomacy back in focus: Trump said the new leaders in Iran “want to talk” and a senior White House official told CNN he will “eventually” speak with new potential leadership. But Iran’s top national security official Ali Larijani said it “ will not negotiate with the United States.”
- Allies working with US: Germany, the UK and France said they agreed to work with the US and other allies in response to Iran’s missile attacks. The UK has agreed to a US request to allow American forces to use its military bases for operations against Iranian missile sites.
- Ships sunk: Trump said the US had sunk nine Iranian navy ships and “largely destroyed” the country’s naval headquarters. One Iranian Navy ship struck Saturday is now “sinking to the bottom of the Gulf of Oman,” US Central Command said.
- Hezbollah joins conflict: Israel and Hezbollah are trading blows after the Iran-backed militant group said it attacked an Israeli army base “in revenge” for the killing of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Israel has vowed to intensify strikes on Lebanon.
- US troop deaths: The three US service members killed in action died in a suspected drone strike in Kuwait, according to sources.

CNN’s Aleena Fayez, Natasha Bertrand, Zachary Cohen, Jennifer Hansler, Jonny Hallam, Rhea Mogul, Teele Rebane Isaac Yee, Alejandra Jaramillo, Haley Britzky, Helen Regan and Laura Sharman contributed to this post.

The waterway faces mounting disruption after German shipping giant Hapag-Lloyd halts transits, an oil tanker “Skylight” was attacked off Oman, and Iran reports a vessel sinking following an “unauthorized passage.”

Debris covers a street beside an apartment building hit by an Israeli airstrike in Beirut on Monday.

At least 31 people have been killed and more than 140 injured in Israeli airstrikes on southern Lebanon and Beirut, the country’s Ministry of Public Health said.

About 20 people have been killed in the southern Beirut suburbs, it said, while around 11 people have died in the south, it added.

The Israeli military earlier confirmed it struck “senior Hezbollah terrorists in the Beirut area” and a “central Hezbollah commander in southern Lebanon.”

Lebanese state media reported that evacuations are underway after a series of Israeli strikes in Beirut’s southern suburbs, including Dahiyeh, a Hezbollah stronghold.

Hezbollah had warned earlier on Sunday that it would “fulfill our duty in confronting the aggression” in response to the killing of Iran’s supreme leader.

It has since confirmed that it launched “missiles and a swarm of drones” at an Israeli army base south of Haifa “in revenge” for the killing.

Footage geolocated by CNN captures flames engulfing the top floor of a building in Ghobeiry, in Beirut’s southern suburbs, shortly after Israel confirmed new strikes on Lebanon.

Iranian state media says more than 100 students have been killed at a girls’ elementary school. CNN investigates cell phone footage of the aftermath.