Iran latest: Britain to let US use bases to strike Iran

LIVE

Updated 16 minutes ago

## President Trump said that Iran was ready to enter talks to end the conflict

A missile launched from Iran flies over the Bureij camp for Palestinian refugees in Gaza

EYAD BABA/AFP

Larisa Brown

|

Haroon Janjua

|

Gabrielle Weiniger

|

Bruno Waterfield

|

Steven Swinford

|

Charlie Moloney

|

Constance Kampfner

|

David Chazan

|

Lara Spirit

| Herbie Russell

Sunday March 01 2026, 10.36pm, The Times

## What you need to know

The UK has agreed to let the US use British military bases to strike Iran, Sir Keir Starmer said

Britain is planning one of the biggest evacuations in its history for those who are in the UAE, Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, Israel and the Palestinian territories

The UK, France and Germany said they were willing to take “defensive action” against Iran

President Trump said three US servicemen killed on Sunday had “outstanding records”

Trump agreed to talk to Iranian leaders, but was vague on timings

Demonstrators celebrated the death of the ayatollah in London, Manchester and Glasgow

19 minutes ago

10.47pm

## MPs should have say over use of UK bases, say Lib Dems

The Liberal Democrats have demanded that MPs be given a say on whether the US can use British bases to strike targets in Iran.

Its party leader Sir Ed Davey said: “No matter how the prime minister tries to redefine offensive as defensive, this is a slippery slope. He must not let Trump drag Britain into another prolonged war in the Middle East.

“Starmer must come to parliament tomorrow, set out the legal case in full, and give MPs a vote.

“We have a duty to defend our brave British troops and citizens in the region, and that must be the focus of any operations. The UK must not be complicit in illegal military action.”

30 minutes ago

10.36pm

## Trump calls on Iranians to ‘back your country’

Trump has called for Iranians to rise up against the regime, saying it was now “up to them”.

“I call upon all Iranian patriots who yearn for freedom to seize this moment. Be brave, be bold, be heroic and take back your country. America is with you. I made a promise to you, and I fulfilled that promise. The rest will be up to you,” he said in a video posted on Truth Social.

46 minutes ago

10.20pm

## War to last until all ‘objectives achieved’, says Trump

President Trump has said that combat operations would continue “in full force, and they will continue until all of our objectives are achieved”.

In an interview with the Daily Mail published earlier on Sunday, Trump said the war had “always been a four-week process”.

In a video posted on Truth Social, Trump went on to say that Iranians were cheering the news of the Ayatollah’s death, calling him a “wretched and vile man”, responsible for “the slaughter of countless … of innocent people”.

“All over Iran, the voices of the Iranian people could be heard cheering and celebrating in the streets when his death was announced,” he added. “The entire military command is gone as well, and many of them want to surrender into saving their lives. They want immunity.”

1 hour ago

10.06pm

## Trump: Iran poses ‘dire threat to Americans’

In a video on Truth Social, President Trump said that an Iranian regime with nuclear weapons would be “a dire threat to every American”.

“We cannot allow a nation that raises terrorist armies to possess such weapons, allow them to extort the world to their evil will. We’re not going to allow it happen. Not happening to us, not going to let it happen to others,” he said.

“The United States is the strongest military the world has ever seen. There’s never been a military like we possess. And frankly, there’s nobody even close,” Trump added.

1 hour ago

9.54pm

## UK to notify the UN on the use of British bases

The UK has published a summary of the legal advice supporting its decision to allow the US to use British bases to strike some targets in Iran.

It said Tehran’s “reckless and ongoing indiscriminate attacks” demanded “a united response to restore peace and security”, adding that the UK was “defending itself and its position in the region”.

The summary continued: “The UK’s actions and related support to its allies is solely focused on ending the threat of air and missile attacks against regional allies unlawfully attacked by Iran and who have not been involved in hostilities from the outset.

“It does not signal the UK having any wider involvement in the broader ongoing conflict between the US, Israel and Iran.

“The UK remains of the view that a negotiated solution should be supported, and that further escalation into a wider regional conflict should be avoided.

“The Government will notify the United Nations Security Council of relevant actions taken under Article 51 of the United Nations Charter.”

1 hour ago

9.46pm

## Attack ‘narrowly missed’ UK personnel

Iran’s military approach is “becoming more dangerous to civilians” and “putting British people at risk”, the prime minister said on Sunday evening.

The prime minister said in a video statement posted on X. “Yesterday Iran hit a military base in Bahrain, narrowly missing British personnel.

“The death of the Supreme Leader will not stop Iran from launching these strikes. Their approach is becoming even more reckless — and more dangerous to civilians.

“Our decision that the UK would not be involved with the strikes on Iran was deliberate, not least because we believe that the best way forward for the region and the world is a negotiated settlement — one in which Iran agrees to give up any aspirations to develop a nuclear weapon.

“But Iran is striking British interests nonetheless, and putting British people at huge risk, along with our allies across the region. This is the situation we face today.”

2 hours ago

8.52pm

## Trump: US troop deaths may be ‘continuous’

Trump has acknowledged the three service members who were killed in Operation Epic Fury.

He told the Daily Mail: “They’re great people. And, you know, we expect that to happen, unfortunately.

“Could happen continuous — it could happen again. But they’re great people, with outstanding records, outstanding.”

The three US members have yet to be identified publicly.

1 hour ago

9.25pm

## Diego Garcia to help ‘destroy missiles’, Starmer says

Britain has given the US permission to mount “defensive” airstrikes against Iran from joint bases to stop it from being able to launch waves of missile and drone attacks.

The prime minister said he has given the US permission to use Diego Garcia, a joint military base in the Indian Ocean, and RAF Fairford in Gloucestershire.

He said: “The only way to stop the threat is to destroy the missiles at source — in their storage depots or the launchers which are used to fire the missiles.

“The US has requested permission to use British bases for that specific and limited defensive purpose.

“We have taken the decision to accept this request to prevent Iran firing missiles across the region, killing innocent civilians, putting British lives at risk and hitting countries that have not been involved

“The basis of our decision is the collective self-defence of longstanding friends and allies, and protecting British lives. This is in line with international law and we are publishing a summary of our legal advice.”

1 hour ago

9.13pm

## Britain to let US use bases to strike Iran

The UK has agreed to a US request to use British military bases to strike Iranian missile sites, Sir Keir Starmer has said.

Starmer also said the UK “will not join offensive action” in Iran, adding: “We all remember the mistakes of Iraq and we have learned those lessons.” (edited)

2 hours ago

8.59pm

## UK and allies ready to take ‘defensive action’ against Iran

The UK, France and Germany said on Sunday they were ready to defend their interests and those of their allies in the Gulf if necessary by taking “defensive action” against Iran.

The three countries’ leaders were “appalled by the indiscriminate and disproportionate missile attacks launched by Iran against countries in the region, including those who were not involved in initial US and Israeli military operations”, said the joint statement.

“Iran’s reckless attacks have targeted our close allies and are threatening our service personnel and our civilians across the region,” the statement added.

“We call on Iran to stop these reckless attacks immediately.

“We will take steps to defend our interests and those of our allies in the region, potentially through enabling necessary and proportionate defensive action to destroy Iran’s capability to fire missiles and drones at their source

“We have agreed to work together with the US and allies in the region on this matter.”

2 hours ago

8.45pm

## War to last four weeks, says Trump

Trump has indicated the war with Iran could go on for at least “four weeks”.

“It’s always been a four-week process. We figured it will be four weeks or so. It’s always been about a four week process so — as strong as it is, it’s a big country, it’ll take four weeks — or less,” he said in an interview with the Daily Mail.

Trump previously said he was open to talks with Iran. “They want to, they want to talk, but I said you should have talked last week not this week,” he said.

2 hours ago

8.20pm

## EU warns Middle East over repercussions of drawn-out war

European Union foreign ministers have warned that “the Middle East stands to lose greatly from any drawn-out war” and called for “maximum restraint” after emergency talks earlier this evening.

The bloc fears that an escalating and prolonged conflict will have spillovers for Europe, including the risk of an oil shock if Iran blocks oil shipments through the Strait of Hormuz.

“The events unfolding in Iran must not lead to an escalation that could threaten the Middle East, Europe and beyond, with unpredictable consequences, also in the economic sphere,” said a statement.

“The disruption of critical waterways, like the Strait of Hormuz, must be avoided.”

The EU called for maximum restraint, protection of civilians and full respect for international law and backed an agreement to end Iran’s nuclear programme as well as curbing its ballistic missile programme.

“The EU will continue to contribute to all diplomatic efforts to reduce tensions and to bring about a lasting solution to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon,” said the statement.

“Iran’s attacks and violation of the sovereignty of a number of countries in the region are inexcusable. Iran must refrain from indiscriminate military strikes.”

3 hours ago

8.00pm

## France reinforcing support for allies, says Macron

President Macron said France was reinforcing its military posture and its support for allies in the Middle East. The Charles de Gaulle aircraft carrier is being redeployed from the north Atlantic to the eastern Mediterranean.

“We need to be able to adapt our posture to developments in the last few hours,″ Macron said.

An Iranian drone hit a hangar at a French naval base in Abu Dhabi on Sunday, causing a fire but no casualties.

Thousands of Iranians took part in a demonstration in Paris against the regime in Tehran. Some carried the flag of the Iranian monarchy in exile, others held Israeli, US and French flags.

3 hours ago

7.50pm

## US embassy in Djibouti advises personnel to avoid area

The US embassy in Djibouti has advised personnel to avoid the area surrounding the embassy, as well as Camp Lemonnier, the largest US military base in Africa, until further notice, “in light of heightened regional tensions and public threats against US interests in the region,” in a post on X.

“The embassy remains operational and able to provide emergency services to US citizens. At this time, there is no specific information indicating a direct threat to US citizens or US interests in Djibouti. The US embassy urges all US citizens in Djibouti to exercise increased caution and remain informed.”

3 hours ago

7.35pm

## EU nations call for ‘maximum restraint’

The European Union’s 27 nations on Sunday called for “maximum restraint” and full respect for international law in the Iran conflict and across the Middle East, the European Union’s foreign policy chief, Kaja Kallas, said.

“We call for maximum restraint, protection of civilians and full respect of international law, including the principles of the United Nations Charter, and international humanitarian law,” said a statement issued by Kallas on behalf of all the EU’s member countries.

3 hours ago

7.30pm

## UK police make four arrests during protests

Police have made four arrests after a weekend of largely peaceful anti-Iranian government demonstrations across London.

Met officers arrested two people on suspicion of causing fear or threatening behaviour on Saturday.

Anti-Iranian government protests in London were largely peaceful over the weekend

JACQUELINE LAWRIE/LN

On Sunday, one person was arrested on suspicion of failing to comply with demonstration conditions imposed by police. Officers made a second arrest in connection with alleged criminal damage and assault.

Around 1,500 protesters marched through central London on Saturday, calling on the UK government to close the Iranian embassy.

3 hours ago

7.25pm

## Israel deals ‘severe blow’ to Iran’s command centres in fresh strikes

The Israeli military said it had dealt a “severe blow” to Iran’s command and control centres on Sunday after a fresh wave of strikes on military targets in the Islamic Republic.

The military “struck dozens of the regime’s military command centres, including headquarters belonging to the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), intelligence headquarters, IRGC Air Force command centres, and internal security headquarters” in the Tehran area, the military said in a statement.

“The completed wave of strikes has dealt a severe blow to the terrorist regime’s command-and-control capabilities, eliminating personnel within its most critical headquarters,” the statement added.

A separate military statement said the air force had “completed over 30 strikes against the Iranian ballistic missile array and aerial defence systems.”

“A few hours ago, we struck Tehran with more than 100 fighter jets,” Effie Defrin, a military spokesman, said in a video statement, hours after Binyamin Netanyahu, Israel’s prime minister, vowed to intensify air strikes on the Iranian capital in the coming days.

3 hours ago

7.10pm

## Family of Rio Ferdinand hid in Dubai home during attacks

The family of the footballer Rio Ferdinand sheltered in the basement of their Dubai home as Iranian weaponry pummelled the Emirati city last night (Herbie Russell writes).

Kate Ferdinand, a reality TV show star and the wife of the former Manchester United footballer, said she and their three children had endured a “very scary night”.

The family moved to the United Arab Emirates in August last year with their children, Shae, 2, Cree, 5, and Rio’s fourteen-year-old daughter from his previous marriage, Tia.

Rio and Kate Ferdinand moved to the UAE with their children last year

“Thank you for all of your messages and sorry for the silence, I haven’t wanted to worry you all. I just haven’t been able to find the words. We are safe,” she wrote.

“The government are doing an amazing job of keeping it that way, and despite my nerves, I feel we are in very safe hands.”

She continued: “We are hoping for a calmer evening tonight; last night was very scary. Although Cree and Shae loved it, as they couldn’t believe we all got a sleepover in the basement.”

Meanwhile, Luisa Zissman, a former candidate on BBC’s The Apprentice, who also lives in Dubai with her three children, said the bombardment had been “surreal and scary”.

4 hours ago

7.05pm

## ‘All senior terrorist leaders eliminated’, claim IDF

The IDF have announced, in a post on X, that “all senior terrorist leaders” in Iran’s “axis of terror” have been eliminated.

The IDF claimed that this includes Ayatollah Khamenei, the Iranian chief of staff, Abdal Rahim-Mousavi, the commander-in-chief of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, Hossein Salami, who died last year, and the leader of the Hamas terrorist organisation, Yahya Sinwar, who died in 2024.

4 hours ago

6.55pm

## UAE to close embassy in Iran

The UAE is to close its embassy in Iran and recall its ambassador, a statement from the Emirati foreign ministry said has announced.

“The UAE announces closure of its embassy in Tehran and withdrawal of its ambassador and all members of its diplomatic mission, and condemns the Iranian missile attacks,” the ministry said X.

The decision was made in response to “the blatant Iranian missile attacks that targeted the country’s territories, which constitute aggressive assaults that struck civilian sites, including residential areas, airports, ports, and service facilities, and exposed defenceless civilians to danger”.

4 hours ago

6.52pm

## Strike on school ‘kills 148’

Iran’s Mizan News Agency has said the death toll from a missile strike on a girls’ school in southern Iran has risen to 148.

Another 95 people were wounded in the attack on Saturday, according to the report.

Iran has blamed Israel for the attack, however, Israel said it was “not aware” of any US or Israeli strike on a school.

Mizan news agency is the the official news outlet of Iran’s judiciary.

4 hours ago

6.49pm

## Three ships attacked in the Strait of Hormuz

Three ships were attacked in the Strait of Hormuz on Sunday, maritime security agencies said, as Iran pressed a second day of strikes in response to ongoing US-Israeli air raids.

One ship, off the coast of Oman, was “struck by an unknown projectile above the waterline. Although the engine room was originally reported as on fire it has now been reported that the fire is under control,” UKMTO, the British maritime security agency, said.

In a separate incident, a vessel near Mina Saqr in the UAE was “struck by an unknown projectile causing a fire. The fire has been extinguished and the vessel intends to continue on its voyage,” UKMTO said.

It later reported another projectile “exploded in very close proximity to a [third] vessel” 35 nautical miles west of the Emirati city of Sharjah. It said all crew were “safe and well”.

4 hours ago

6.43pm

## Supreme leader’s daughter killed in strike

Ayatollah Ali Khameini’s daughter and granddaughter were among the supreme leader’s relatives killed in the strike on Saturday.

Iranian media reported that six high-ranking figures of the regime, including Mohammad Pakpour, the leader of the Revolutionary Guards, had also been killed.

4 hours ago

6.38pm

## British expat’s home hit by drone in Dubai

A British man has claimed that an Iranian drone struck his apartment in Dubai, sharing footage of debris flung across his living room.

The man, whose British accent can be heard in the video, said: “No jokes, guys. We have just been hit by a drone. It stinks of oil in here. I didn’t even get to finish my cup of tea.”

The expatriate said his flat was on the 19th floor of the Warda apartment complex in the city’s south, where apartments reportedly sell for around 1.3 million dirhams (£275,000).

Elsewhere in Dubai, at least two drones have hit Dubai International Airport, while the Burj al-Arab and the Fairmont The Palm hotels were also struck on Saturday.

4 hours ago

6.28pm

## Erdogan expresses sadness at Khamenei’s death

Recep Tayyip Erdogan said he was “saddened” by the death of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the supreme leader, in a wave of US and Israeli air strikes on Iran.

The Turkish president said: “I was saddened to learn of the passing of Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, as a result of the attacks that took place yesterday,” and extended Turkey’s “sympathies” to the people of Iran.

4 hours ago

6.07pm

## US stealth bombers strike Iran

American B-2 stealth bombers, equipped with 2,000-pound bombs, have taken part in the military raids on Iran.

The US Central Command said it used the stealth bombers to strike “Iran’s fortified ballistic missile facilities”.

In a post on X, it added: “No country should doubt America’s resolve.”

5 hours ago

6.00pm

## RAF takes down Iranian drone

An Iranian drone en route to Qatar was taken out by an RAF Typhoon aircraft.

The Typhoon was scrambled from al-Udeid air base and was part of the RAF’s 12 squadron, a joint squadron with Qatar.

Britain has no warships in the region for the first time since 1980. The only remaining ship, HMS Middleton, a 42-year-old minehunter, was on its way back to the UK.

A Ministry of Defence spokesman said: “The Typhoon jet was conducting a defensive air patrol and used an air‑to‑air missile to shoot down the drone, ensuring the security of Qatar’s airspace and British interests in the region.

“Our Armed Forces are playing a vital role to protect our people, our interests and our Allies.”

The mission on Sunday morning was the first time a Typhoon had carried out an operational interception in defence of Qatar.

5 hours ago

5.37pm

## Hit on Iranian warship confirmed

The US Central Command announced than one Iranian vessel had been sunk.

The Iranian Jamaran-class corvette was struck by American forces during the start of “Operation Epic Fury”, it said on X.

“As the president said, members of Iran’s armed forces, IRGC and police ‘must lay down your weapons’,” said Central Command in a statement. “Abandon ship.”

There were no further claims of other ships sunk before President Trump’s post.

5 hours ago

5.31pm

## Nine Iranian ships destroyed by US

President Trump has said the US has “destroyed and sunk” nine Iranian navy ships.

In a post on Truth Social, he wrote: “I have just been informed that we have destroyed and sunk 9 Iranian Naval Ships, some of them relatively large and important.

“We are going after the rest — They will soon be floating at the bottom of the sea, also! In a different attack, we largely destroyed their Naval Headquarters. Other than that, their Navy is doing very well! PRESIDENT DONALD J. TRUMP.”

5 hours ago

5.23pm

## Death of US soldiers ‘unnecessary and unacceptable’

Marjorie Taylor Greene, the former Republican Congresswoman, has called the death of three American servicemen as “absolutely unnecessary and is unacceptable”.

In a post on X, she wrote: “My God, these poor military members and their poor families. I’m sorry for them and praying for them. This was absolutely unnecessary and is unacceptable.

“Trump, Vance, Tulsi, and all of us campaigned on no more foreign wars and regime change. Now, America soldiers are dead.”

# X (Twitter) content blocked

Please enable cookies and other technologies to view this content. You can update your cookies preferences any time using privacy manager.

Enable cookiesAllow cookies once

5 hours ago

5.10pm

## Israel mobilises 100,000 reservists

Israel’s army said it was mobilising nearly 100,000 reservists for the Iran military action.

The IDF said it “will prepare and provide the reserve servicemembers with all the logistical means necessary to operate under the best conditions”.

6 hours ago

5.00pm

## UK planning huge evacuation of nationals from Gulf

Britain is drawing up plans for one of the biggest evacuations in its history if the airspace in Gulf countries continues to remain closed.

More than 76,000 people have already registered their location and contact details with the Foreign Office in the space of less than 24 hours.

They are predominantly holidaymakers in the United Arab Emirates and people who were in transit. Hundreds of thousands of people are expected to do so in coming days.

Ministers are drawing up contingency plans to evacuate people from Saudi Arabia. At present the advice for most people in the region is to stay where they are.

The government will only enact the contingency plans if it becomes clear that the airspace will remain closed for a prolonged period.

People in the UAE, Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, Israel and the Palestinian territories are being urged to register here.

6 hours ago

4.45pm

## Iranian regime ‘played it too cute’, Trump says

President Trump said he would “be talking” to Iranian leaders but was vague on the timing and noted that much of the country’s leadership was dead.

“They want to talk, and I have agreed to talk, so I will be talking to them. They should have done it sooner,” Trump was quoted as saying by The Atlantic.

Asked when such talks might take place, Trump said “I can’t tell you.” Trump did not indicate with whom he hoped to speak.

Referring to the Iranian leadership which has been in years of on-and-off talks with US and other Western governments, Trump was quoted as saying “some of the people we were dealing with are gone, because that was a big – that was a big hit”.

“They should have done it sooner,” he said. “They could have made a deal. They should’ve done it sooner. They played too cute.”

6 hours ago

4.35pm

## ‘It’s very stressful’: plight of stranded travellers in Dubai

Ian and Laura Northwood

Ian and Laura Northwood were transiting through Dubai on their way home from a month-long trip around Australia when their flight was cancelled. Mrs Northwood, 58, described the experience as “hell”, explaining that it took seven hours just to leave the airport due to the size of the queues.

There were more people than I care to imagine,” she said. “It was chaos.”

The couple eventually checked into a hotel provided by Emirates, but were forced to find a local pharmacy after running out of blood pressure medication. “I feel very, very anxious,” Mrs Northwood added. “I didn’t expect to be in this situation. I’m just scouring the news trying to get updates. It’s very stressful.”

6 hours ago

4.25pm

## Pahlavi: Islamic Republic ‘will soon be history’

Reza Pahlavi, the son of the last Iranian shah, said the Islamic republic would “soon be consigned to the dustbin of history”.

However, in a post on X, Pahlavi said the death of Ayatollah Khamenei was not the “end” for the present leadership, and called on Iranians to overthrow the government in Tehran.

“Sensitive days lie ahead of us. Together, we will walk the path to victory, and we will overthrow the Islamic Republic,” he said.

# X (Twitter) content blocked

Please enable cookies and other technologies to view this content. You can update your cookies preferences any time using privacy manager.

Enable cookiesAllow cookies once

6 hours ago

4.20pm

## British-Iranians celebrate death of ayatollah

Huge rallies were held on UK streets to celebrate US-Israeli strikes on Iran.

Demonstrators carrying pre-revolution Iranian flags turned out in major cities including London, Manchester and Glasgow.

People gathered outside the Iranian embassy in London on Sunday celebrating the death of the ayatollah

JACK TAYLOR/REUTERS

REUTERS

Video shared on social media showed large crowds marching through Westminster throughout the weekend, while traffic was brought to a standstill in Finchley on Saturday night.

People waving Israeli, US and historic Iranian flags were filmed clapping, dancing and singing in the north London neighbourhood shortly after President Trump announced the ayatollah’s death.

Members of the Iranian community in Finchley

Roughly 1,000 British-Iranians attended a rally in Manchester on Sunday, after weekly demonstrations in St Peter’s Square since January’s nationwide protests in Iran.

About 300 people gathered outside Glasgow’s Royal Concert Hall on Saturday afternoon, to celebrate the military intervention, The National reported.

7 hours ago

4.05pm

## Iran must stop attacks, Merz says

The German chancellor called on Iran to “immediately end indiscriminate attacks” on its Middle Eastern neighbours, and refused to condemn the US and Israel for killing Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and senior Iranians.

Friedrich Merz, who is due to meet President Trump in Washington on Monday, said: “We don’t lecture our partners.”

He described the situation as crossing “the threshold into an uncertain future” and said: “We don’t know if the plan to bring about political change from within through military strikes from the outside will work.”

However, he added: “The German government shares the assessment of many Iranians that this mullah regime is reaching its limits.”

7 hours ago

4.05pm

## Khamenei’s nephew welcomes his death

The death of Iran’s supreme leader Ali Khamenei offers hope to the country, his nephew, a doctor opposed to the regime, told AFP.

“Like most Iranians, I am happy,” Mahmoud Moradkhani, the son of one of Khamenei’s sisters, said by telephone from his home in northern France.

“I am very happy about the death of Ali Khamenei. I think it’s a step forward, a hope,” he added.

The 62-year-old predicted that the regime was unlikely to survive Khamenei’s killing, saying: “The regime’s internal rivalries are such and it won’t be able to resist them, it’ll have to disappear and give the power to the people.”

7 hours ago

4.00pm

## Netanyahu: Israel living through painful days

The scene of the latest strike in Beit Shemesh

ABIR SULTAN/EPA

Binyamin Netanyahu, the Israeli prime minister, offered his condolences to the families of those killed in Iranian strikes, saying his country was living through “painful days”.

Emergency workers said an Iranian missile attack on Sunday had killed at least nine people in the Israeli city of Beit Shemesh, in the deadliest strike in the country since the war began.

“Yesterday here in Tel Aviv, and now in Beit Shemesh, we lost dear people. My heart goes out to the families, and on behalf of all of you, the citizens of Israel, I send my wishes for a full recovery to the injured,” Netanyahu said in a video statement.

7 hours ago

3.55pm

## Trump: 48 senior Iranian officials killed

President Trump claimed that 48 Iranian leaders had been killed in the ongoing US-Israeli bombardments of the country.

“Nobody can believe the success we’re having, 48 leaders are gone in one shot. And it’s moving along rapidly,” Trump was quoted by Fox News as saying in an interview.

7 hours ago

3.40pm

## Iran offensive ‘won’t make Epstein scandal disappear’

Thomas Massie, a Republican congressman, has warned President Trump that the Epstein files won’t “go away” despite the US military operation in Iran.

“Bombing a country on the other side of the globe won’t make the Epstein files go away, any more than the Dow going above 50,000 will,” Massie wrote on X.

Massie, a co-author of the Epstein Transparency Act, has criticised the administration for the lack of arrests or investigations in the US after the release of documents into the late paedophile Jeffrey Epstein.

7 hours ago

3.25pm

## Pentagon dismisses Iran’s claims it hit carrier

The Pentagon has denied Iran’s claim to have struck the USS Abraham Lincoln aircraft carrier with four ballistic missiles in the Gulf.

“The Lincoln was not hit. The missiles launched didn’t even come close,” US Central Command said on X.

Earlier on Sunday, Iran’s Revolutionary Guards said they had attacked the carrier.

“The US aircraft carrier Abraham Lincoln was struck by four ballistic missiles,” the guards said in a statement carried by local media, warning that “the land and sea will increasingly become the graveyard of the terrorist aggressors”.

7 hours ago

3.25pm

## New supreme leader to be selected ‘within days’

Iran’s foreign minister, Abbas Araghchi, said a new supreme leader would be selected in a “day or two”.

He also claimed that the US and Israel could not achieve any victory in the latest war.

“This war cannot bring about any good result for the other side,” he told the Qatari broadcaster, Al Jazeera.

“There is no victory in this war. They have not been able to achieve their targets, and they will not be able to achieve their targets in the coming days. As long as they continue, they cannot achieve anything.”

7 hours ago

3.15pm

## Influencers tell of their fear as Dubai is hit

British influencers and celebrities in Dubai have described their fear as explosions rocked the city.

Petra Ecclestone, the Formula 1 heiress, said her family had moved to the United Arab Emirates “to feel safe” but were facing a “shocking turn of events”.

Petra Ecclestone in a post on Instagram

Ecclestone, 37, said she was struggling to explain the situation to her young children, adding: “I can’t even imagine other people in history who have gone through wars and had to live through it day to day, like my dad, and this just being normal life.”

Poppy Owen, an influencer from Bangor, North Wales, described seeing missiles being intercepted above her home, which is near an airbase. “Naturally we haven’t been able to sleep much during the night. My body is filled with fear and shivering with anxiety. More for the protection of my children and not knowing what to do,” she said.

Poppy Owen

Owen, 34, said she and her husband had told their children “to stay away from the windows and to enter the downstairs bathrooms without any windows if the house starts shaking”.

8 hours ago

3.00pm

## Three US personnel killed

The US military has announced its first casualties of the military action.

It said three “service members” had been killed in action, though gave few other details.

“As of 9:30 am ET, March 1, three US service members have been killed in action and five are seriously wounded as part of Operation Epic Fury,” US Central Command said.

In a post on X, it added: “Several others sustained minor shrapnel injuries and concussions — and are in the process of being returned to duty. Major combat operations continue and our response effort is ongoing.

“The situation is fluid, so out of respect for the families, we will withhold additional information, including the identities of our fallen warriors, until 24 hours after next of kin have been notified.”

8 hours ago

2.55pm

## British-Iranian activist welcomes death of ayatollah

Vahid Beheshti speaking to Israeli MPs

Two years ago, Vahid Beheshti, a British-Iranian dissident, made history as the first member of the Iranian opposition to address the Knesset.

There, he implored Israel, a country still reeling from the brutal murder of almost 1,200 of its citizens, to assassinate their common enemy, Ali Khamenei, a dictator he accused of exporting terror across the Middle East and trampling on civil liberties in Iran.

Beheshti, a hunger striker who has held an almost three-year-long sit-in protest outside the Foreign Office calling for the IRGC to be proscribed, can scarcely believe that the leader of the regime is finally gone.

“I am delighted. This is what the absolute majority of Iranians have waited on for years. To wake up knowing that Khamenei, the murderer of our best youth, isn’t here anymore,” he said. “His name was always associated with death, hate and terrorism.

Beheshti maintained that Khamenei’s death was just the start.

“Israel and America will continue for another week or maybe a few days to make them as weak as possible so the Iranian people get a fair chance to take to the streets again and finish the job. Then it’ll be the beginning of our work to establish a secular democratic system based on human rights”.

8 hours ago

2.50pm

## US repeats warning to Iran

The US military said it had attacked an Iranian warship, which is “sinking to the bottom of the Gulf of Oman”.

The Jamaran-class corvette was struck by American forces during the start of Operation Epic Fury, US Central Command said.

“As the president said, members of Iran’s armed forces, IRGC and police ‘must lay down your weapons’,” said Central Command in a statement. “Abandon ship.”

8 hours ago

2.45pm

## Closing Strait of Hormuz risky, Russia warns

Russia’s foreign ministry has said that the closure of the Strait of Hormuz to shipping could lead to significant instability on global oil and gas markets.

It also said that the news of the killing of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, members of his family and some high-ranking Iranian officials was met with resentment and deep regret in Russia.

8 hours ago

2.40pm

## Iran strikes: have your say

8 hours ago

2.40pm

## Maersk halts its ships from crossing Strait of Hormuz

Maersk, the major shipping container company, has announced it is halting passage through the narrow Strait of Hormuz in the Gulf, next to Iran, for “safety” reasons.

“We are suspending all vessel crossings in the Strait of Hormuz until further notice,” the Danish group said. “The safety of our crews, vessels and customers’ cargo remains our key priority,” it added.

Iran’s Revolutionary Guards declared the strait closed, and state media in Oman, which sits on the other side of the strait, said on Sunday that an oil tanker off its coast had been targeted, injuring four crew members.

8 hours ago

2.10pm

## Democrat and Republican spar over ayatollah

The Democratic congresswoman Ilhan Omar has asked Nancy Mace to “refrain from drinking too much” in an online dispute provoked by the crisis in the Middle East.

Mace, a Republican congresswoman, accused Omar of mourning the death of the Iranian supreme leader, Ayatollah Khamenei, mockingly sending her “thoughts and prayers”, in a post on X.

Omar responded: “I hope you aren’t drunk and took your staff’s advice,” referring to a report that detailed claims from former staff of Mace that she drank and smoked marijuana “excessively”.Omar added: “Please restrain from drinking too much … and off social media when you are drunk.”

Mace has denied the claims, which were reported in the New York Magazine.

# X (Twitter) content blocked

Please enable cookies and other technologies to view this content. You can update your cookies preferences any time using privacy manager.

Enable cookiesAllow cookies once

9 hours ago

2.05pm

## Interim leadership gets to work in Iran

Masoud Pezeshkian, the Iranian president, has claimed that an interim leadership council established after the killing of Ali Khamenei, its supreme leader, has begun its work.

“The interim leadership council started its work,” he said in a statement broadcast on state TV. “We will continue with all our strength along the path set by Imam Khomeinei.”

He added that the Islamic republic’s military would “forcefully crush the enemy’s bases”.

9 hours ago

2.00pm

## France satisfied with Khamenei’s ‘demise’

France is “satisfied” with the death of Iran’s “bloodthirsty dictator” Ali Khamenei, a government spokesman has said.

Maud Bregeon told RTL radio: “Khamenei was a bloodthirsty dictator who oppressed his people, degraded women, young people and minorities, and was recently responsible for the deaths of thousands of civilians in his country and in the region. We can therefore only be satisfied with his demise.”

President Macron has called a meeting of his defence council to discuss the crisis for 7pm on Sunday. It will be the second session of the council since US and Israeli strikes on Iran began on Saturday.

9 hours ago

1.54pm

## One person dead in Kuwait

One person has been killed and 32 others injured in Kuwait since the start of Iran’s retaliation campaign against US and Israeli strikes that killed its supreme leader, the health ministry said on Sunday.

Abdullah al-Sanad, the health ministry’s official spokesman, said 32 people, all of them foreigners, had been injured since Saturday, and “one death was reported”.

9 hours ago

1.47pm

## Death toll from Iranian strike on Israel rises

Nine people have died after an Iranian strike on the Israeli town of Beit Shemesh, emergency services said, revising an earlier death toll.

First responders said they had found further bodies buried in rubble after the missile struck a residential area.

Among those injured was a four-year-old boy. A total of 28 people were sent to hospital after the attack.

Emergency services carry a body from the debris in Beit Shemesh

ABIR SULTAN/EPA

9 hours ago

1.42pm

## Israeli offensive will continue ‘as long as necessary’

The war will continue “for as long as necessary”, Israel’s defence minister has said as the country bombards Iran for a second day.

In a military briefing, Israel Katz said the fighting would “continue for as long as necessary. It will not be stopped even a moment before the objectives are achieved.”

He said the plan was to pave the way for the Iranian people “to remove this regime for themselves, and in doing so also for us, for the entire region, and for the whole world”.

Katz called the assassination of Ali Khamenei, the supreme leader, a “turning point” for the region.

9 hours ago

1.27pm

## US bases are ‘legitimate targets’, Iran claims

Ali Larijani, the secretary of Iran’s national security council, told countries such as the UAE, Bahrain, Kuwait and Qatar that Tehran was “not seeking to attack you”, but said American bases in the countries were legitimate targets.

“When the bases located in your country are used against us, and when the United States carries out operations in the region relying on these forces, then we will target those bases,” he wrote on X. “For these bases are not part of the land of those countries; rather, they are American soil.”

All four countries, which are home to various US military bases, have been hit by Iranian attacks since Saturday.

9 hours ago

1.20pm

## UK trade delegation stranded in Dubai

A delegation from the West Midlands, including the Labour mayor Richard Parker, are among those stuck in Dubai after their connecting flight was cancelled on the way home from India.

Mark Lee, a professor of artificial intelligence at the University of Birmingham, was one of about a dozen people who were changing flights at Dubai on Saturday afternoon after a trade mission to Ahmedabad, Mumbai and Bengaluru in India.

Mark Lee in Dubai

He said he was “a bit frustrated not to be home last night” and was “not optimistic” about getting back to the UK before the middle of next week.

Lee added that life in the city seemed relatively normal. “It just seems to be a slightly less busy Dubai really,” he said. “The inhabitants are actually just taking it very stoically.”

10 hours ago

1.00pm

## Three killed by Iranian strikes on the UAE

Black smoke rises above an industrial area of Dubai on Sunday

EPA

Three people have been killed by Iranian strikes on the UAE, the Emirati ministry of defence has said.

It said on X that the victims were Pakistani, Nepalese and Bangladeshi citizens. Another 58 people had been injured, it added.

In total, 162 ballistic missiles, two cruise missiles and 541 drones have so far been fired by Iran at the UAE.

Almost 90 per cent of the 11 million-plus population in the UAE are foreign residents, about 50 per cent of whom are from south Asia.

10 hours ago

12.55pm

## At least six dead in Israel

At least six people have been killed by an Iranian ballistic missile strike in central Israel on Sunday afternoon, rescue services have said.

“Four people were killed in a direct hit on Beit Shemesh,” Zaki Heller, an emergency services spokesman, said on television. Beit Shemesh is 18 miles west of Jerusalem.

The destruction in Beit Shemesh

AMMAR AWAD/REUTERS

The failure to intercept the missile is under investigation, according to the Israeli military.

10 hours ago

12.50pm

## Thornberry: Regime change in Iran not legitimate

Regime change in Iran is “not a legitimate war aim”, Dame Emily Thornberry, the chairwoman of the foreign affairs committee, said.

“Practically everyone in the world is happy that we don’t have the ayatollah in charge of Iran any more,” she told Times Radio.

“But there is a concern, obviously, that what is it that’s going to come next? Because it’s, there’s one thing worse, I suppose, than oppression and dictatorship. And that is chaos.”

The Labour MP added: “I don’t think that the Americans or the Israelis have gone into this with a clear plan as to what it is that happens next.”

Thornberry suggested that an uprising by the Iranian people was unlikely while the regime still controlled the army and revolutionary guards, adding: “We have seen that they have no compunction in shooting thousands, tens of thousands of people.”

10 hours ago

12.40pm

## No missiles launched at Cyprus, island officials say

Cypriot government officials have “categorically rejected” reports that two missiles were launched by Iran towards the island country.

In comments to the Cyprus News Agency (CNA), Vassilis Palmas, the defence minister, denied the claims. A government spokesperson also said there was no indication Cyprus had been under threat.

Earlier, John Healey, the British defence secretary, told Sky News that two missiles launched by Iran toward Cyprus had been successfully intercepted.

He added that “we do not believe that they were targeting Cyprus”.

10 hours ago

12.35pm

## Who could be Iran’s new supreme leader?

As Israeli and American strikes continued into Saturday night, uncertainty over Iran’s future was deepening (Louise Callaghan writes). The supreme leader may have painted himself as a revolutionary, but he was a brutal and repressive ruler who killed or sidelined every serious opponent he had.

For Khamenei and those around him, anything — including slaughtering their own people — was permissible to ensure the survival of the regime. While President Trump has struggled to outline a rationale for waging war on Iran, for Khamenei the battle was existential.

• Read in full: Who could be Iran’s new supreme leader – and what happens next?

10 hours ago

12.35pm

## How US and Israeli strikes on Iran unfolded

Normally, the military hits the enemy while they are sleeping (Larisa Brown writes). But in a departure from the “shock and awe” tactics used during the overnight bombing of Baghdad in March 2003, the US and Israel launched Operation Epic Fury in broad daylight.

It was a calculated move, designed to target the leadership of Iran as they held meetings at the start of the working week. Israeli and US military intelligence had a fix on Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran’s supreme leader, who had held a vice-like grip on his country since 1989.

For President Trump, with regime change in his sights, and emboldened by the success of his Venezuela operation, it was too good an opportunity to give up.

• Read in full: How US and Israeli strikes on Iran unfolded: secret missiles and cyberattacks

10 hours ago

12.20pm

## Why is the US attacking Iran?

Patience with diplomacy expired, a major military onslaught against Iran has begun and the country’s foes have said that the supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has been killed in the strikes (Mark Urban writes). As with any strategy for victory, the military means will need to be matched to achievable ends.

It seems from the outset that President Trump is setting the most ambitious objective: toppling the Islamic regime. Announcing the strikes on Saturday, he talked about the regime’s “unending campaign of bloodshed and mass murder” against the US and its allies, as well as telling Iranians, “your hour of freedom is at hand”.

• Read in full: Why is the US attacking Iran? Trump’s ‘huge gamble’ explained

10 hours ago

12.20pm

## Hamas and Hezbollah denounce ayatollah’s death

Hamas and Hezbollah have mourned the death of Ayatollah Khamenei.

“The US and the fascist occupation government bear full responsibility for this blatant aggression and heinous crime,” Hamas said.

Hezbollah, another Iran proxy, vowed to “undertake our duty of confronting the aggression” of Israel and the US.

11 hours ago

12.05pm

## At least 150 ships stranded near Strait of Hormuz

At least 150 ships are stranded on either side of the strategically important Strait of Hormuz.

The tankers, including crude and liquefied natural gas vessels (LNG), have dropped anchor in open Gulf waters beyond the strait, and dozens more were stationary on the other side of the chokepoint, shipping data showed on Sunday.

The tankers were clustered in open waters off the coasts of major Gulf oil producers including Iraq and Saudi Arabia as well as the LNG giant Qatar.

11 hours ago

12.00pm

## Israel ‘lopped off head of the snake’

Itamar Ben-Gvir, Israel’s national security minister, said the country had “lopped off the head of the snake” with the killing of Iran’s supreme leader, Ali Khamenei.

Speaking at the site of an Iranian missile attack in Tel Aviv, he called the death the “end of an era”.

One person was killed and four others were injured in a strike in Tel Aviv strike on Sunday

11 hours ago

12.00pm

## Nine dead as protesters storm US consulate in Karachi

At least nine people have been killed and 25 wounded in violent clashes with police and paramilitary forces after hundreds of protesters stormed the US consulate in the Pakistan’s largest city, Karachi.

Police and officials at a hospital said some of the injured were in a critical condition.

Summaiya Syed Tariq, a surgeon, confirmed that initially six bodies and multiple injured people were brought to the city’s main government hospital. However, she said the death toll had risen to nine after three critically wounded died.

The US embassy in Pakistan wrote on X that it was monitoring reports of ongoing demonstrations at the US consulates in Karachi and Lahore, as well as calls for additional protests at an embassy in Islamabad.

It advised Americans in Pakistan to monitor local news and avoid large crowds.

11 hours ago

11.50am

## ‘Spiral of violence’ must stop, Pope says

The Pope has said he is following events after the US-Israeli strikes against Iran with “deep concern” and made an impassioned appeal to stop what he called a “spiral of violence”.

“I address a heartfelt appeal to the parties involved to assume the moral responsibility to stop the spiral of violence before it becomes an irreparable abyss,” he told pilgrims in St Peter’s Square.

“Stability and peace are not built through mutual threats or through weapons … but only through reasonable, genuine, and responsible dialogue.”

11 hours ago

11.45am

## Analysis: Dying a martyr the best outcome for ayatollah

Ayatollah Ali Khamenei may have resigned himself to being killed and even courted the thought as the best ending for his legacy, an analyst said.

Sanam Vakil, who leads the Middle East programme at Chatham House, said: “We shouldn’t be surprised Khamenei is gone. This was the only way forward for himself, for the system.”

After the initial strikes that killed the leader, Iranian officials told some media that he had been secreted out of the capital to safety, before acknowledging his death. It appeared that Khamenei had done little to protect himself.

“He had to die in his own country, in his own office, for his already very tarnished legacy,” Vakil said, referring also to his brutal suppression of protests. “He wasn’t going into hiding. The fact that he died at the hands of the Israelis and the US couldn’t have been a better end.

“Dying as a martyr was the best possible outcome for him and the system. Now it allows the system to move forward by evolving.”

11 hours ago

11.40am

## Analysis: EU divided on response to ayatollah’s death

European governments will not mourn the demise of Ali Khamenei but are divided over how to respond.

Foreign ministers will hold emergency talks today amid widespread relief that Iran’s brutal leader is gone, raising the possibility of a regime change. However, this is overshadowed by fears that Tehran’s military response will plunge the Middle East into war.

The lack of enthusiasm from America’s European allies is likely to be a bone of contention after confrontations between Europe and President Trump so far this year.

While the EU has noted a “defining moment in Iran’s history” with “an open path to a different Iran”, the bloc has called on all parties, including the US, “to exercise maximum restraint” but held back from criticising Trump’s Operation Epic Fury.

In a sign of the divisions over how to react, Pedro Sanchez, the Spanish prime minister, broke ranks to condemn the US and Israeli attacks. “We reject the unilateral military action which represents an escalation and contributes to a more uncertain and hostile international order,” he said on Saturday.

11 hours ago

11.35am

## Regime declares 40 days of mourning for ayatollah

Mourners in Tehran on Sunday

MAJID SAEEDI/GETTY IMAGES

Iran has begun 40 days of mourning after the assassination of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, according to state media in Tehran, before the supreme leader’s funeral.

President Pezeshkian condemned the killing as “a great crime”, according to a statement from his office. In addition to the mourning period, the president declared seven days of public holidays.

People were seen gathering in the streets of the capital after the news of Khamenei’s killing.

Iran’s Tasnim News Agency reported that “Iranians across the country filled the streets on Sunday morning to honour the memory of Ayatollah Khamenei, who was martyred in a US and Israeli terrorist attack”.

11 hours ago

11.25am

## UK ‘shooting down Iranian missiles and drones’

UK forces based in Qatar, Cyprus and Iraq are intercepting Iranian drones and missiles to protect British troops and regional allies, John Healey, the defence secretary, said.

Healey told Times Radio that a counter-drone team in northern Iraq had “taken down” Iranian drones in the 24 hours after the US and Israel strikes. RAF jets were also “shooting down any missiles or drones that they see,” he added.

• John Healey warns Iran is ‘lashing out’ as missiles fire at Cyprus

In response to questions about potential UK involvement in the US attacks on Iran, Healey replied: “All our actions are defensive actions.” He added: “We will do what we need to to defend UK personnel and bases to help reinforce the protection of regional allies and regional security and we will do what we can to prevent further escalation.”

11 hours ago

11.15am

## Death of Khamenei a ‘defining moment’ for Iran

Mourners in Tehran on Sunday

ABEDIN TAHERKENAREH/EPA

The EU’s top diplomat said that the bloc was seeking “practical steps for de-escalation”.

Kaja Kallas said that the death of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei was a “defining moment in Iran’s history” but warned that what comes next remained uncertain.

“There is now an open path to a different Iran, one that its people may have greater freedom to shape,” she said. “I’m in contact with partners, including those in the region that bear the brunt of Iran’s military actions, to find practical steps for de-escalation.”

The German chancellor, Friedrich Merz, President Macron and Sir Keir Starmer said yesterday that they were “not involved in the military strikes” but remained in close contact with the US and Israel.

11 hours ago

11.10am

## China ‘strongly condemns’ ayatollah’s killing

China has said it “strongly condemns” the killing of Iran’s supreme leader.

The killing of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei was “a serious violation of Iran’s sovereignty and security, a trampling on the aims and principles of the UN Charter and the basic norms of international relations”, Beijing’s foreign ministry statement said.

“China firmly opposes and strongly condemns this,” it added, calling for “immediate halting of military operations”.

12 hours ago

11.00am

## Celebrations in Iran after ayatollah killed

Crowds celebrate in Iran

Iranians have celebrated the death of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei by toppling a statue of the former supreme leader.

Videos posted on social media showed people cheering as his statue was pulled down in the western city of Dehloran, Ilam province. Celebrations also took place in the streets of Karaj city, near Tehran, and Izeh in Khuzestan province.

In Galleh Dar, southern Iran, people knocked down a monument commemorating Ayatollah Khomeini, who founded the Islamic Republic in 1979, a video on social media showed.

“Am I dreaming? Hello to the new world!” a man can be heard shouting, as fires burnt on a roundabout where the monument was toppled, prompting cheers and applause.

Another video showed celebrations in Lapuee, southern Iran, outside the house of a 15-year-old teenager, Pooya Jafari, who was shot dead during anti-government protests in January.

12 hours ago

11.00am

## First tanker attack in Strait of Hormuz

The first tanker has been attacked in the Strait of Hormuz, the 24-mile stretch of water through which around a quarter of the world’s oil supplies travel.

Four people were injured on board the Palau-flagged tanker, Skylight, when it was attacked off the coast of Musandam, Oman’s state news agency reported.

Oman authorities confirmed on X that there were 20 crew members on board, including 15 Indian nations and five Iranians.

Iran closed the Strait in the hours after the US-Israel attacks began. The regime has warned that shipping entering Hormuz could be targeted as part of reprisals.

12 hours ago

10.45am

## England cricketers among travellers stranded in UAE

Flight disruption is continuing across the region, and the England Lions cricket squad are among those stuck in the United Arab Emirates.

The team were due to play their scheduled second 50-over match against Pakistan Shaheens in Abu Dhabi on Saturday, but it was cancelled because of security concerns.

Their coach, Jonny Bairstow, asked on social media “if anyone has any intel in Dubai please reach out”, tagging Sir Keir Starmer and the British embassy in the UAE.

English cricket’s governing body said it was in contact with “security experts and the government” and that the safety and security of its teams was the “top priority”.

Travel remains heavily disrupted across the Middle East. Airports across the region, including Dubai International, the world’s busiest international hub, are closed.

Dubai airport and Abu Dhabi airport hit overnight

12 hours ago

10.33am

## Putin: Khamenei’s death a violation

President Putin has expressed condolences to Iran and denounced the killing of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.

Putin said Iran’s supreme leader had been “assassinated” in a “cynical violation” of “morality and international law”, according to the Kremlin.

North Korea also condemned the US and Israeli attacks on Iran as a “violation of national sovereignty.”

The pro-Iranian militant groups Hamas and Hezbollah mourned Khamenei and vowed to confront the “aggressors”.

Islamic Jihad, which fought a war against Israel in Gaza for two years alongside Hamas, said the killing of Khamenei was a “war crime” by the US and Israel in a “treacherous and malicious attack”.

12 hours ago

10.19am

## Half of Iranian missile stockpile destroyed, says IDF

The Israeli military said on Sunday that it had destroyed roughly half of Iran’s missile stockpiles.

“During the operation, we destroyed approximately half of the Iranian regime’s missile stockpiles and prevented the production of at least 1,500 additional missiles,” Brigadier General Effie Defrin, a military spokesman, said in a televised statement.

“The regime had recently been producing dozens of surface-to-surface missiles per month and intended to increase production to hundreds per month.”

12 hours ago

10.15am

## US allies Qatar and Kuwait scramble jets

Military forces in Qatar and Kuwait said on Sunday that they had intercepted Iranian attacks, according to Arab media reports.

Qatar said it had scrambled fighter jets to respond to air attacks involving drones and cruise missiles launched from Iran.

Kuwait’s defence ministry said it had destroyed a “number of hostile aerial targets” in the south of the country.

Both countries are US allies and host American military bases.

12 hours ago

10.13am

## Iranian celebrations in London

Iranians celebrated on the streets of Finchley, north London, after the death of Ayatollah Khamenei was announced.

Hundreds of people gathered in the area, which is dubbed Little Tehran because of its large Iranian community, as car horns sounded throughout Saturday evening.

Many waved the pre-revolution Iranian flag bearing the lion and sun emblem used by opposition groups in the country.

12 hours ago

10.08am

## Trump warns Iran over retaliation

President Trump said the US would hit Iran “harder than they had ever been hit before” if it continued launching retaliatory strikes.

He wrote on Truth Social: “Iran just stated that they are going to hit very hard today, harder than they have ever hit before.

“THEY BETTER NOT DO THAT, HOWEVER, BECAUSE IF THEY DO, WE WILL HIT THEM WITH A FORCE THAT HAS NEVER BEEN SEEN BEFORE! Thank you for your attention to this matter! President DONALD J TRUMP”.

10.05am

## UK terror threat level under review

Britain is reviewing whether to raise the terror threat level in the UK amid concerns about Iranian retaliation to Israeli and American strikes.

The present threat level is substantial. There are two higher levels, severe and critical.

Asked by Trevor Philips whether it was being reviewed, John Healey, the defence secretary, said: “Absolutely. When you get a regime like this lashing out in the Middle East indiscriminately and widely, hitting civilians and military targets, when you have some of its proxies capable of other actions on their behalf then of course our force protection in the region is at its highest. Our alert and vigilance in the UK is also high.”

10.04am

## Healey refuses to say whether UK backs strikes

The defence secretary has repeatedly declined to say whether the UK believes the US-Israeli strikes on Iran were legal.

Asked six times by the BBC’s Laura Kuenssberg whether the UK backed the strikes or thought they were legal, John Healey declined to give a direct answer.

He said Britain played no part in the strikes on Iran and later added: “It is for the US to set out the legal basis of the action that it took.”

10.02am

## Patel: US and Israel right to strike Iran

Priti Patel, the shadow foreign secretary, has said the killing of Ayatollah Khamenei should not be mourned “one bit at all”.

She told Sunday Morning With Trevor Phillips on Sky News that the US and Israel were “absolutely” right to strike Iran, adding that it was a position the Conservatives supported.

Patel said: “We have to remember, Trevor, that the Iranian regime has been a murderous, barbaric regime sponsoring terror around the world and also threatening our own country.

“We should not mourn the loss of the ayatollah one bit at all, he has been heading up and leading a murderous regime that has murdered tens of thousands of their own civilians and citizens, just for speaking up for their freedom.”

10.00am

## ‘Declaration of war against Muslims’

President Pezeshkian of Iran branded Ayatollah’s Khamenei’s killing a “declaration of war against Muslims” by Israel and the United States.

“The Islamic Republic of Iran considers it its legitimate duty and right to avenge the perpetrators and masterminds of this historic crime,” Pezeshkian said in a statement shown on state TV.

Iran’s powerful Revolutionary Guards had earlier on Sunday vowed to punish Khamenei’s “murderers”.

9.54am

## Explosions continue in Tehran

MAJID ASGARIPOUR/WANA/REUTERS

Explosions and large plumes of smoke have been witnessed in Tehran for a second day after Israel said it was continuing to attack the Iranian capital.

Videos circulating on social media appeared to show multiple locations affected, with blasts reported near the city’s main broadcasting complex.

9.50am

## Ayatollah’s death confirmed

The death of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei was confirmed by Iranian state media on Saturday night, hours after President Trump announced the supreme leader had been killed in US-Israeli strikes.

“It is announced to the martyr-nurturing people of Iran that Grand Ayatollah Khamenei, the Supreme Leader of the Islamic Revolution, was martyred in a joint attack by the criminal United States and the Zionist regime,” a semi-official government news agency said in a statement.

Iranian state media confirmed that Khamenei had been killed in the early hours of Saturday at his office in Tehran.

Trump earlier posted on his Truth Social platform: “Khamenei, one of the most evil people in History, is dead.”

9.44am

## Iranian missiles hit close to British troops

John Healey, the defence secretary, said Iranian missiles and drones had landed within “a few hundred yards” of about 300 British troops at a base in Bahrain, and two missiles had been fired in the direction of Cyprus, where thousands of UK personnel are based.

He said: “We don’t believe they were targeted at Cyprus, but nevertheless it’s an example of how there is a very real and rising threat from a regime that is lashing out widely across the region.”

Healey told Sunday Morning With Trevor Phillips on Sky News that British planes were “taking down” drones and missiles that were “menacing” British bases and allies in the region, such as Qatar.

But he declined to say whether the UK had refused the US permission to use British bases such as Diego Garcia to strike Iran, or comment on the legality of America and Israel’s actions.