Starmer under pressure to back Trump’s airstrikes on Iran

The defence secretary John Healey on Sunday refused six times to say whether the UK supported the attacks

Steven Swinford

, Political Editor

Sunday March 01 2026, 8.40pm, The Times

Sir Keir Starmer was briefed on the US and Israeli missile attack on Iran

Steven Swinford

, Political Editor

Sunday March 01 2026, 8.40pm, The Times

Sir Keir Starmer is under growing pressure to endorse US and Israeli strikes on Iran after refusing to do so in a move that puts him at odds with other world leaders.

The prime minister has condemned Iran’s “utterly abhorrent” regime, while John Healey, the defence secretary, said it was a “source of evil”.

However, Healey repeatedly refused to say whether Britain supports Israel and the US. Mark Carney, the Canadian prime minister, and Anthony Albanese, the Australian prime minister, have backed the US.

The defence secretary John Healey declined to support the US-Israeli actions on Sunday

The UK is concerned the airstrikes could be in breach of international law. Starmer refused to allow Trump to use the UK-US Diego Garcia military base in the Indian Ocean or RAF Fairford in Gloucestershire to mount the strikes, prompting anger in the White House.

Healey refused six times to say whether the UK backed the airstrikes. He told the BBC: “Britain played no part in the strikes on Iran. We share, however, the primary aim of all allies in the region and the US that Iran should never have a nuclear weapon.”

Healey said that it is for the US to lay out the legal grounds for the attack. He said: “The straight answer to the question of ‘is the US action legal?’ That is for the US to set out and explain. It’s not for me as a defence secretary of the UK.”

Carney said that he “supports the United States acting to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon and to prevent its regime from further threatening international peace and security”. Albanese used similar language.

Nigel Farage, the leader of Reform UK, urged the prime minister to allow the use of British military bases to “support the Americans in this vital fight”. He also called on Starmer to follow the EU’s lead and proscribe the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps as a terrorist organisation.Kemi Badenoch, the Conservative Party leader, said that she “stands with our allies in the US and Israel” as they “take on the threat” of Iran. Dame Priti Patel, the shadow foreign secretary, said: “A lot of this has been about why has Keir Starmer not actually worked with our American allies to be much more proactive?

“On the basis that a lot of intelligence is shared between our two countries, the Americans would easily have shared — and rightly so — details of their plans.

“Why were some of our bases not used? And was the British government asked about use of our military bases in the defensive strikes that took place?”

Dame Priti Patel said that British bases should have been used to help the attack

Healey said that Britain has been involved in “active” defensive actions during the strikes, including over Cyprus.

Starmer spoke to the King of Bahrain, the Crown Prince of Kuwait and the King of Jordan on Sunday morning. A Downing Street spokesman said: “He expressed the UK’s solidarity in the face of dangerous Iranian escalation, which has seen indiscriminate missile and drone attacks launched at their countries in the last 24 hours.

“They discussed the safety of civilians in the region, including British nationals and armed forces personnel, and expressed deep concern that strikes have hit civilian and commercial infrastructure — harming innocent people.

“He reiterated that the UK has had planes in the sky since yesterday as part of the co-ordinated defensive response to protect our partners in the region, and would continue to offer our support.”