Gold slips on stronger dollar, higher rate expectations

Gold fell about 2% on Monday against a stronger dollar, while higher oil costs fueled inflation concerns and dimmed prospects for near‑term interest rate cuts.

Carla Gottgens | Bloomberg | Getty Images

Gold fell more than 1% on Monday, pressured by a stronger dollar ​and expectations of higher interest rates as the Middle East conflict ‌fuelled inflation concerns.

Spot gold was down 1.5% at $5,091.62 per ounce. U.S. gold futures for April delivery settled 1.1% lower at $5,103.70.

Inflation worries and expectations of higher ​interest rates driven by uncertainty over the war weighed on gold, but ​a prolonged conflict is also expected to sustain safe-haven demand ⁠and provide a floor for gold prices, said Jim Wyckoff, senior analyst at ​Kitco Metals.

Gold is seen as an inflation hedge, but low rates boost its ​appeal as a zero-yield asset.

The U.S. dollar firmed as soaring oil prices neared $120 a barrel, sending investors scrambling for cash on fears that a protracted Middle East war could severely disrupt energy ​supplies and hurt global growth. A stronger dollar makes greenback-priced bullion more ​expensive for other currency holders.

Israel’s military said it had launched attacks in central Iran and struck ‌the ⁠Lebanese capital Beirut. The war has effectively shut the Strait of Hormuz, where a fifth of global oil and seaborne liquefied gas is shipped near Iran’s coast.

On the data front, the U.S. consumer price index for February is due on ​Wednesday, while the Federal ​Reserve’s preferred inflation ⁠gauge, the Personal Consumption Expenditures (PCE) index, will be released on Friday.

“If we get some hot inflationary numbers this week, ​then that’s really going to put the Federal Reserve into ​kind of ⁠a quandary. It could see a further drop in gold prices,” Wyckoff said.

The U.S. central bank’s next policy meeting is on March 17–18, where it is widely ⁠expected to ​hold interest rates steady.

Among other metals, spot silver ​was down 0.2% at $84.18 per ounce, platinum gained 1.1% to $2,158.02 and palladium rose 2.4% to $1,663.79.

Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news.