USA TODAY - Breaking News and Latest News Today

Exclusive: Iran wakes to fear and whispered hope after Khamenei’s death

See Kate Hudson, Kristen Bell arrive on Actor Awards red carpet

What each side wants in the Homeland Security shutdown standoff

Do Americans support Iran strikes? What the polling says

In a new era of protests, where's the soundtrack?

Red carpet looks and highlights ahead of Actor Awards

Surprise! Hudson Williams shows up on 'SNL' with Connor Storrie

Featured Videos

For You

Which topics matter most to you? Add your favorites and you’ll see more of these stories in the For You section. View For You

More Top Stories

'Scream 7' slices up record opening weekend after…

Crowds gather for Lunar New Year parade in New York City

US on high alert for homeland attacks by Iran. What to…

Oil prices likely to top $90 after Iran strikes, but…

Former MLB pitcher sentenced to life after shooting…

Travel options limited, alerts issued after US…

Can you have a gun if you smoke a lot of pot? Supreme…

How hostilities led to Trump's decision to attack Iran

March Madness power rankings: Ranking top 20 teams based…

National Egg McMuffin Day is March 2. McDonald's to…

'It's not true': Trump's reasons for Iran attacks…

These 12 national parks are free year-round

Discover

See images as US, Israel launch strikes on Iran Actress reveals coronary heart disease diagnosis. What… 'Alpine divorce' is a viral new dating term. It's…

Trump was given the perfect way to win back voters. He didn't take it.

Shopping

Grab 25% off a 'beast' portable tire inflator made for… This breakfast sandwich maker from Amazon is 26% off… What can the new wet/dry Tineco cleaner do? Get this oversized zero gravity recliner for under $125

Sports

NASCAR Circuit of the Americas live updates Former LSU star makes case for QB2 in 2026 NFL Draft Cardinals 'likely' to release Kyler Murray, report Willard says working for Pitino was 'the most miserable…

Entertainment

Sofia Carson teases releasing new music Ricky Staffieri on 'The Bear' cast dynamics See Kevin O’Leary’s $20M necklace at Actor Awards Actor Awards 2026 best dressed list 👀 Who made the cut?

Politics

'Disgusting and evil.' Will Trump face MAGA backlash on… Experts dispute Iran nuclear threat claims Trump warns more US troop deaths 'likely' US on high alert for homeland attacks by Iran. What to…

Pets

Coffee run turns into joy for shelter pups Watch terminally ill dog receive love from strangers on… Road trip tips for you and your dog You have to see this new pygmy hippo named Jellybean

News in Pictures

See Kate Hudson, Kristen Bell arrive on Actor Awards red… 🎨 Supporters' groups show their creativity: MLS tifos on… Scene unfolds after deadly Austin bar shooting 2026 NFL Scouting Combine: These faces show how athletes…

Trending Video

How to program a garage door opener in seconds Watch terminally ill dog receive love from strangers on… Watch soccer captain perform chest compressions on… See teens refurbish cars to help single mothers in need

Money

US stocks fall, oil jumps amid US-Israel strikes on Iran What will happen to oil prices after Iran strikes? National Egg McMuffin Day is March 2. McDonald's to offer… Want the best quality gas in your area? Here’s what to…

Real Estate

Find your dream home — start your search today Need an agent who listens? These pros get it. Get a real home value — not just a guess 3 post-storm winter tasks that homeowners often overlook

Wellness

How to go to sleep fast and stay asleep through the night Older Americans are lonely. It's a public health crisis. What does skin cancer look like? Dermatologists explain… Are you getting enough vitamin D3? What you need to know.

Just Curious

How to go to sleep fast and stay asleep through the night Are you getting enough vitamin D3? What you need to know. Tea or coffee? What the science really says The truth about overnight oats as a regular breakfast…

Opinion

Why censor network TV when rules don't apply on internet… Crypto is creeping into primaries – and controlling the… Democrats can't just kill the SAVE Act. Voters need to… No better time for US to strike Iran, but Trump needed…

Travel

Stress-free Caribbean vacations: 10 all-inclusive family… FAA to cut flights at Chicago O'Hare starting in March Mexico trip jitters: Should you cancel spring break? Americans are suddenly flocking to this Montana community…

Investigations

They went to jail for minor crimes. Sepsis was a death… Cash vanished from charity raffles at NHL, NBA games A $2B NHL team seized control of youth hockey. Parents… Top Trump officials' stock sales clustered before tariff…

U.S. News

Austin bar shooting kills at least 3 3 US troops killed in Iran operation, several others… Crowds gather for Lunar New Year parade in New York City Scene unfolds after deadly Austin bar shooting

USA TODAY 10BEST

Ever wondered what a Jedi smells like? This brand says… This Kate Spade crossbody dropped to $58: ‘Perfect for… Amazon secretly slashed prices on car accessories today Is 'lipstick underwear' a genius hack for long trips?

Tech

Samsung Galaxy S26 review: What we loved Pokémon kicks off 30th celebration by unveiling new games Spend your afterlife inside this $495 musical urn Gaming chip shortage: Nvidia warns of pain for consoles

Trump warns 'more' US combat deaths before conflict ends. Iran updates A total lunar eclipse is coming. What to know about the 'blood moon' Trump says conflict in Iran is moving in 'a very positive way' Kelly Osbourne slams weight loss comments, is 'going through something' Who determines a document's historic value? Experts weigh in. These springtime dangers can sneak up on you FBI probes possible terrorism link to deadly Texas bar shooting 'SNL' takes on BAFTAs Tourette's incident, skewers J.K. Rowling