Democrat James Talarico wins Senate primary in Texas | PBS News

James Talarico did not mention Donald Trump when he greeted exuberant supporters at his primary night celebration.

But the newly minted Democratic U.S. Senate nominee in Texas is now a front man for the political opposition to the Republican president, not just in his own state but around the country. With his victory over U.S. Rep. Jasmine Crockett, the state lawmaker from Austin will test whether a smiling message of unity and change is enough to answer voters' frustrations amid discord at home and now a war abroad.

"We are not just trying to win an election," Talarico told supporters in the Texas capital early Wednesday. "We are trying to fundamentally change our politics, and it's working."

The campaign provided "Love thy Neighbor" signs to people in the crowd.

The question for Talarico as he heads into the general election campaign is whether he can generate enthusiasm from voters who opted for Crockett because they saw her as the more aggressive fighter against Trump. Crockett conceded to Talarico on Wednesday morning, saying that "Texas is primed to turn blue and we must remain united because this is bigger than any one person."

Talarico will need all the help he can get in a Republican-dominated state where Democrats have gone decades without winning a statewide race. He will face either U.S. Sen. John Cornyn or state Attorney General Ken Paxton, who advanced to a Republican runoff on Tuesday.

Conventional political wisdom has it that Talarico was the stronger Democratic candidate in November, especially if Republicans nominate Paxton, a conservative firebrand who has weathered allegations of corruption and infidelity over the years.

Talarico, 36, is a Presbyterian seminarian who quotes Scripture and rarely raises his voice. Crockett, 44, is an unapologetic political brawler who hammers Trump and other Republicans with acidic flourish.

Both have been reliably progressive votes in their current roles and telegenic faces across cable news and social media. Both represent generational change for a party with aging leadership. Each called for a more equitable economy and society. Each talked about bringing sporadic voters into their coalitions.

But Talarico's broader argument is one that he could have made regardless of whether Trump was in the White House. Talarico's campaign, he said often, is about addressing a country whose fundamental divide is not partisan but "top vs. bottom." He regularly assails the rise in Christian nationalism. A former teacher, he has advocated for public education –- and against Texas conservatives' policies to restrict curriculum and reshape how U.S. history is taught.

"He's just a good friend and he's a serious advocate for the disenfranchised and a serious policymaker," said Lea Downey Gallatin, 40, an Austin resident who became friends with Talarico when they interned together for a congressman.

Crockett promised Democrats that she could increase turnout within the party's base, while Talarico campaigned on the theory that he could pull new people into the party's tent.

"I can't tell you how many have come up to me, whispering that they're not a Democrat," Talarico said as he campaigned in San Antonio in the closing days of the primary campaign. "I can't tell you how many young people have said it's the first time that they've ever voted, and that they are participating for the first time."

As he strolled through the city, Talarico posed for pictures and greeted the singer of a Tejano band playing nearby. He later spoke to hundreds of people at the historic Stable Hall, a 130-year-old circular structure built for showing horses and now a converted event center. Hundreds more, unable to get into the full event, wound around the corner and along the sidewalk for blocks.

Inside, Lori Alvarez, a 39-year-old who works for a disaster relief nonprofit, said she supported Talarico because "he really listens to what we need."

"I think he's going to be able to make change in Washington for us," said the married mother of three young girls.

Yet that was not what attracted so many voters to Crockett.

Troy Burroughs, a 61-year-old Navy retiree, called Crockett "rugged" and "the only one I see fighting for us."

He added: "I like how she doesn't back down from anybody."

Burroughs said some voters probably saw Talarico as more electable because he is more soft-spoken. But, he said, "We've got to get into the gutter with these folks, because that's where they are."

Talarico, meanwhile, keeps fighting his own way.

"Tonight, the people of our state gave this country a little bit of hope," he said Tuesday, "and a little bit of hope is a dangerous thing."

Barrow reported from Atlanta, Figueroa from Austin, Texas, and Beaumont from San Antonio.