Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) said Sunday that he believes that U.S. military action against Iran will have “overwhelming support” among Republicans on Capitol Hill.

“I’ve been on the campaign trail all across Arkansas for the last two days, visiting with hundreds of Republicans,” Cotton told CNN’s Dana Bash on “State of the Union.” “I haven’t heard a single Arkansan express anything but unqualified support for President Trump and for his decision to finally put America’s foot down and end 47 years of terror and revolutionary violence by the Islamic Republic against the United States and our citizens.”

“And I suspect you’ll see overwhelming support from elected Republicans in the Congress, who are answerable to our voters in places like Arkansas and states all across the country when we’re back in the Capitol later this week,” he added.

Early Saturday, the U.S. and Israel launched strikes in Iran amid escalating tensions in the region. Iran then retaliated with attacks on Israel and other Gulf countries, including Saudi Arabia and Qatar.

After Saturday’s strikes, Democrats and some GOP lawmakers have pushed for Congress to return from recess and hold a vote on a war powers resolution seeking to rein in the president’s military action in the region.

“Donald Trump has launched a war on Iran and Congress must convene on Monday to vote on [Rep.] Thomas Massie’s [R-Ky.] and my war powers resolution to stop this war,” Rep. Ro Khanna (D-Calif.) said in a video posted on the social platform X.

Cotton, in Sunday’s interview, also said that any forthcoming U.S. strikes in Iran will focus on Tehran’s “thousands” of missiles.

“We’ve always said Iran can never have a nuclear weapon. They also can’t be allowed to have a vast missile arsenal and that’s exactly what they have — thousands and thousands of missiles, much more than the United States and Israel have in missile defense combined,” Cotton told Bash.

“What the American people will see in the days ahead will be a methodical and systematic focus on Iran’s missiles, its missile launchers and ultimately its missile manufacturing capability so they can’t continue to threaten our troops, Israel and our other friends in the region,” he added.

Add as preferred source on Google

Dana Bash Donald Trump Greg Casar House Republicans Iran Iran strikes Ro Khanna senate republicans Thomas Massie Tom Cotton Trump administration

---

Copyright 2026 Nexstar Media Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.