The Washington Post - Breaking news and latest headlines, U.S. news, world news, and video

Logo of The Washington Post

Democracy Dies in Darkness

- Sports
- D.C., Md. & Va.
- World
- Tech
- Business
- Well+Being
- Climate
- Investigations
- Style
- Opinions
- Politics

- Ask The Post AI
- WP Intelligence

Live

First responders in Beit Shemesh, Israel, carry the body of one of nine people killed in a missile strike. (Heidi Levine for The Post)

- 1:47 p.m.From the scene where nine people were killed in central Israel
- 2:09 p.m.Gulf countries condemn attacks by Iran
- 2:30 p.m.Where strikes have hit Iran since yesterday
- 7:36 a.m.What to know

The midterm elections and a growing battle over the party’s post-Trump identity heighten the political stakes of military action.

Rep. Jasmine Crockett (D-Texas) and state Rep. James Talarico debate in January. (Bloomberg/Getty Images)

Latino voters will probably decide the primary contest between Rep. Jasmine Crockett and state Rep. James Talarico — two rising stars who are stylistic opposites.

President Donald Trump’s name is added to the Kennedy Center facade on Dec. 19. (Marvin Joseph/The Post)

The ballet company joins a long list of groups and artists, including composer Philip Glass, soprano Renée Fleming and banjoist Béla Fleck, who have backed out of events at the cultural institution.

(Chloe Meister/The Post; iStock)

At the 184-year-old Cleveland Plain Dealer, a top editor’s push to let AI draft news articles is boosting traffic — and spooking staffers.

Because of western warmth, this past meteorological winter preliminarily ranks as the second-warmest on record for the contiguous United States.

New York could get more snow Sunday after a blizzard made this sculpture possible. (Getty Images)

Traffic at Yosemite National Park. (Reuters)

Yosemite and other parks are dropping reservation systems, raising concerns about overcrowding. Here are strategies for a more relaxed summer vacation.

BETA

Ripple brings together diverse perspectives from across the opinion landscape to show how the country is engaging with today’s biggest stories.

Explore Ripple

Opinions

George F. Will

Editorial Board

David Ignatius

Reza Pahlavi

Editorial Board

Max Boot

Letters to the Editor

Editorial Board

Jonathan Wood

Jason Willick

Etan Yeshua

Megan McArdle

More Top Stories

Reps. Robert Garcia (D-California), left, and James Comer (R-Kentucky). (Demetrius Freeman/The Post)

If they take control of the chamber after the midterms, Democrats are planning to summon Trump to testify and launch an array of probes of the administration.

Most Read

1

2

3

4

Latest from The Post

Opinion Editorial Board

Opinion Letters to the Editor

Opinion George F. Will

Better Living

Column Meghan Leahy

Column Tamar Haspel

Politics & Government

President Donald Trump at a White House event for Black History Month. (Maxine Wallace/The Post)

The centennial of what became Black History Month offered a microcosm of the president’s views on race and progress.

Business & Technology

Column Michelle Singletary

National

World

Climate, Health & Science

Column Dana Milbank

D.C., Md. & Va.

Sports

Featured Videos

Advice

Carolyn Hax

R. Eric Thomas

Sahaj Kaur Kohli

Judith Martin, Nicholas Martin and Jacobina Martin

Live Chats

Reader Q&A

Opinion David Ignatius

Style

Arts & Entertainment

Travel

Food

Column Tamar Haspel

Recipes What do you want to cook today?

Find a recipe

Search

Diversions

Comics

Crosswords

Keyword

Wridges

Quiz

Mah Jongg

Sudoku

Horoscopes

Solitaire