Photos: War in the Middle East after US-Israel strikes on Iran | CNN

A woman watches plumes of smoke rise from an oil storage facility after overnight strikes in Tehran, Iran, on Sunday, March 8.

Arash Khamooshi/The New York Times/Redux

The United States and Israel began joint attacks against Iran on February 28, killing the country’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.

Iran has responded with an unprecedented wave of strikes across the Middle East, targeting Israel and several countries that host US military bases, including Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates.

Israel and Hezbollah are also trading blows as the conflict widens.

Both US President Donald Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said their main objectives were to defend their respective countries from imminent threats posed by Iran — most notably, to prevent the Islamic regime from acquiring a nuclear weapon, without providing any evidence that it was any closer to obtaining one.

Trump and Netanyahu have also been clear about their hopes for regime change in Iran. Trump told the Iranian people that “the hour of your freedom is at hand,” while Netanyahu has urged them to “cast off the yoke of tyranny.”

A widow clutches a portrait of her husbnd as his body is placed in a grave at a mass funeral in Nabi Sheet, Lebanon, on Sunday. David Guttenfelder/The New York Times/Redux

a dignified transfer at Dover Air Force Base in Delaware on Saturday, March 7. Six US Army Reserve soldiers were killed March 1 in an Iranian drone strike in Kuwait.' onload='this.classList.remove('image__dam-img--loading')' onerror='imageLoadError(this)' height='2745' width='4117' /

US President Donald Trump salutes during a dignified transfer at Dover Air Force Base in Delaware on Saturday, March 7. Six US Army Reserve soldiers were killed March 1 in an Iranian drone strike in Kuwait. Julia Demaree Nikhinson/AP

Vapor trails remain in the sky above Tel Aviv, Israel, after Israel intercepted missiles launched from Iran on Friday, March 6. Dylan Martinez/Reuters

Donated meals are distributed Friday to displaced people in Beirut, Lebanon, who fled airstrikes in the southern suburbs. Diego Ibarra Sanchez/The New York Times/Redux

A damaged hotel room is seen Thursday, March 5, in Hazmieh, Lebanon, a suburb southeast of Beirut. Diego Ibarra Sanchez/The New York Times/Redux

A boy tries to climb on an unexploded missile after it fell in an open field in Qamishli, Syria, on Wednesday, March 4. Baderkhan Ahmad/AP

their vessel sank off the Sri Lankan coastline on Wednesday. US Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth said a US submarine sank an Iranian warship in international waters.' onload='this.classList.remove('image__dam-img--loading')' onerror='imageLoadError(this)' height='5760' width='8640' /

Workers in Galle, Sri Lanka, unload the bodies of Iranians who died when their vessel sank off the Sri Lankan coastline on Wednesday. US Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth said a US submarine sank an Iranian warship in international waters. Eranga Jayawardene/AP

Israeli tanks maneuver near the Israel-Lebanon border on Wednesday. Ariel Schalit/AP

Civil defense forces in Tyre, Lebanon, try to extinguish a blaze after Israel bombarded a solar farm and electricity generation facility. Israeli strikes have pummeled parts of Lebanon this week after the Iranian-backed militant group Hezbollah claimed responsibility for firing projectiles from Lebanon into Israel on Monday. Kawnat Haju/AFP/Getty Images

An Israeli helicopter fires while flying along the border between northern Israel and southern Lebanon on Wednesday. Jalaa Marey/AFP/Getty Images

funeral in Minab, Iran, on Tuesday, March 3. Iranian officials say at least 168 young students were killed February 28 when US-Israeli airstrikes hit the Shajaba Tayyiba Girls’ elementary school in Minab. The school sits about 200 feet from an Iranian military base. The United States military was likely responsible for the strike, according to CNN and expert analysis of evidence.' onload='this.classList.remove('image__dam-img--loading')' onerror='imageLoadError(this)' height='2970' width='4455' /

In this aerial photo released by the Iranian Press Center, mourners dig graves during a funeral in Minab, Iran, on Tuesday, March 3. Iranian officials say at least 168 young students were killed February 28 when US-Israeli airstrikes hit the Shajaba Tayyiba Girls’ elementary school in Minab. The school sits about 200 feet from an Iranian military base. The United States military was likely responsible for the strike, according to CNN and expert analysis of evidence. Iranian Press Center/AFP/Getty Images

A man named Misha puts the veil over the face of his bride, Lior, while getting married in an underground bomb shelter in Tel Aviv, Israel, on Tuesday. The wedding was originally meant to take place in Petah Tikva, but it was moved to the bomb shelter because of the war. Alexi J. Rosenfeld/Getty Images

damaged in Tehran on Tuesday.' onload='this.classList.remove('image__dam-img--loading')' onerror='imageLoadError(this)' height='3768' width='5652' /

The Golestan Palace, a UNESCO World Heritage site, is seen damaged in Tehran on Tuesday. Arash Khamooshi/The New York Times/Redux

Officers from Israel's Home Front Command inspect a damaged apartment building after an Iranian missile strike in Petah Tikva, Israel, on Tuesday. Ohad Zwigenberg/AP

A woman in Tehran, Iran, walks past the wreckage of a police station Tuesday that was destroyed by US-Israeli airstrikes. Arash Khamooshi/The New York Times/Redux

A man surveys damaged cars Tuesday in Bnei Brak, Israel. Nir Elias/Reuters

Mourners lower the flag-draped bodies of Sarah Elimelech and her daughter Ronit into a grave during their funeral in Beit Shemesh, Israel, on Monday, March 2. They were killed in an Iranian missile strike a day earlier. Ohad Zwigenberg/AP

“the hardest hits are yet to come” while noting that the Trump administration believes that the objectives for its operation against Iran “can be achieved without ground forces.”' onload='this.classList.remove('image__dam-img--loading')' onerror='imageLoadError(this)' height='2832' width='4240' /

US Secretary of State Marco Rubio speaks to the media on Capitol Hill on Monday, the day congressional leaders were briefed on the situation in Iran. Rubio said the “the hardest hits are yet to come” while noting that the Trump administration believes that the objectives for its operation against Iran“can be achieved without ground forces.” Ken Cedeno/Reuters

Gandhi Hospital in Tehran on Monday. Witnesses told Reuters the facility was hit in Israeli strikes, though CNN has not independently verified the reports.' onload='this.classList.remove('image__dam-img--loading')' onerror='imageLoadError(this)' height='5760' width='8640' /

Debris is seen in a room of the Gandhi Hospital in Tehran on Monday. Witnesses told Reuters the facility was hit in Israeli strikes, though CNN has not independently verified the reports. Vahid Salemi/AP

A girl wears a decorative dress for the Jewish festival of Purim inside a bomb shelter synagogue in Hadera, Israel, on Monday. Ariel Schalit/AP

Trump offered a four-pronged explanation for the weekend strikes against Iran, telling reporters and guests that he wanted to destroy the country’s missile capabilities, annihilate its navy, end its nuclear ambitions and prevent it from arming terrorists.' onload='this.classList.remove('image__dam-img--loading')' onerror='imageLoadError(this)' height='2667' width='4000' /

US President Donald Trump departs following a Medal of Honor ceremony at the the White House on Monday. Trump offered a four-pronged explanation for the weekend strikes against Iran, telling reporters and guests that he wanted to destroy the country’s missile capabilities, annihilate its navy, end its nuclear ambitions and prevent it from arming terrorists. Daniel Heuer/Bloomberg/Getty Images

Mourners attending the funeral of Sarah Elimelech and her daughter Ronit take cover Monday while air-raid sirens warn of incoming missiles in Beit Shemesh, Israel. Ohad Zwigenberg/AP

Smoke rises following Israeli airstrikes on Dahiyeh, Lebanon, a southern suburb of Beirut, on Monday. Hassan Ammar/AP

Children sit on a sidewalk as displaced families fleeing Israeli strikes arrive in the southern port city of Sidon, Lebanon, on Monday. Mohammad Zaatari/AP

Israeli emergency responders work at the scene of a missile strike on a road in Jerusalem on March 1. Ilan Rosenberg/Reuters

A missile launched from Iran is seen in central Gaza from the Bureij camp for Palestinian refugees. Eyad Baba/AFP/Getty Images

People gather at the site of a deadly missile strike in Beit Shemesh, Israel, on March 1. Leo Correa/AP

In this photo released by the US Navy, the USS Thomas Hudner fires a Tomahawk missile from an undisclosed location on March 1. US Navy/Reuters

Emergency personnel carry a body at the site of a strike in Beit Shemesh, Israel, on March 1. Ammar Awad/Reuters

Smoke rises above Tehran after the city was targeted by US and Israel airstrikes on March 1. Fatemeh Bahrami/Anadolu/Getty Images

People hold a picture of Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, as they gather at Enghelab Square in Tehran on March 1. Majid Asgaripour/West Asia News Agency/Reuters

Rescue workers and military personnel survey the site of a missile strike in Tel Aviv, Israel, on March 1. Oded Balilty/AP

Stranded passengers wait near an Emirates Airways customer service office at an airport in Bali, Indonesia, after flights to the Middle East were canceled on March 1. Johannes P. Christo/Reuters

Government supporters in Tehran gather in mourning after state TV officially announced the death of Khamenei. Vahid Salemi/AP

An officer from Israel's Home Front Command searches through the rubble of a destroyed house after it was struck by a missile in Beit Shemesh. Leo Correa/AP

Leah Guttmann holds her son, Teddy, while taking shelter in an underground parking garage as air-raid sirens warn of incoming missiles in Tel Aviv, Israel. Ohad Zwigenberg/AP

Residents watch from the roofs of their houses as plumes of smoke rise in Tehran on March 1. Atta Kenare/AFP/Getty Images

People prepare to spend the night sleeping in an underground shelter in Tel Aviv, Israel, on February 28. Alexi J. Rosenfeld/Getty Images

Protesters shout slogans as they carry portraits of Khamenei and wave Iranian flags near the US embassy in Baghdad on February 28. Ahmad Al-Rubaye/AFP/Getty Images

Emergency responders and residents gather at the site of a reported Iranian missile strike in central Israel on February 28. Amit Elkayam/The New York Times/Redux

An intercepted missile is seen from Doha, Qatar, on February 28. Saleh Salem/Reuters

Emergency workers inspect damage to the Fairmont The Palm hotel in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. Altaf Qadri/AP

Emergency workers assist civilians after a strike in Tel Aviv, Israel, on February 28. Erik Marmor/Getty Images

An explosion lights up the night sky as a missile hits a building in Tel Aviv on February 28. Tomer Neuberg/AP

Sadaf Ebrahimi and Shirin Nariman, supporters of the National Council of Resistance of Iran, react to reports of Khamenei's death as they watch the news at Nariman's home in Vienna, Virginia. Nathan Howard/Reuters

Heavy traffic clogs the streets of Tehran on February 28. Majid Asgaripour/Wana News Agency/Reuters

An air defense system operates in Jerusalem as missiles are launched toward Israel from Iran on February 28. Ronen Zvulun/Reuters

released by The White House, President Donald Trump, chief of staff Susie Wiles and Secretary of State Marco Rubio monitor US military operations in Iran from the president's Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida. Portions of the photo have been blurred by the source.' onload='this.classList.remove('image__dam-img--loading')' onerror='imageLoadError(this)' height='1333' width='2000' /

In this photo released by The White House, President Donald Trump, chief of staff Susie Wiles and Secretary of State Marco Rubio monitor US military operations in Iran from the president's Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida. Portions of the photo have been blurred by the source. The White House

A person takes shelter as sirens sound in Jerusalem on February 28. Ahmad Gharabli/AFP/Getty Images

Staff members transfer patients to an underground shelter at the Ichilov hospital in Tel Aviv, Israel, following an air raid warning on February 28. Amit Elkayam/The New York Times/Redux

People wave Iranian flags during a rally in Tehran on February 28. Arash Khamooshi/The New York Times/Redux

A woman looks out from her rooftop garden in Tehran after large explosions shook the city on February 28. Arash Khamooshi/The New York Times/Redux

An explosion in the sea is seen from Haifa, Israel, on February 28. Rami Shlush/Reuters

People take shelter in Ashkelon, Israel, after missiles were launched from Iran on February 28. Amir Cohen/Reuters

People watch as smoke rises over the Tehran skyline after an explosion on February 28. AP

Smoke billows above the compound of Iran's supreme leader on February 28. Airbus

People play racketball outside an underground parking garage used as a shelter in Tel Aviv, Israel. John Wessels/AFP/Getty Images

A missile is intercepted over the Israeli coastal city of Netanya on February 28. Jack Guez/AFP/Getty Images

the rubble of an elementary school in Minab, Iran, on February 28. Iranian officials say at least 168 young students were killed when US-Israeli airstrikes hit the school, which sits about 200 feet from an Iranian military base. CNN has not been able to independently verify who is responsible for the strike. When asked about the strike, a US Central Command spokesperson said, “we are aware of reports … and are looking into them.”' onload='this.classList.remove('image__dam-img--loading')' onerror='imageLoadError(this)' height='4000' width='6000' /

Rescue workers and residents search through the rubble of an elementary school in Minab, Iran, on February 28. Iranian officials say at least 168 young students were killed when US-Israeli airstrikes hit the school, which sits about 200 feet from an Iranian military base. CNN has not been able to independently verify who is responsible for the strike. When asked about the strike, a US Central Command spokesperson said, “we are aware of reports … and are looking into them.” Abbas Zakeri/Mehr News Agency/AP

People in Doha, Qatar, watch from their balcony following explosions on February 28. Qatar's defense ministry said it had downed missiles targeting the country. Mohammed Salem/Reuters

People take shelter under a highway bridge near Latrun, Israel, on February 28. Amir Cohen/Reuters

Birds fly overhead after an airstrike in Tehran on February 28. Majid Asgaripour/WANA/Reuters

Scan the QR code to download the CNN app on Google Play.

Scan the QR code to download the CNN app from the Apple Store.