Public Storage to Acquire National Storage Affiliates, Creating Significant Value for All Stakeholders – Company Announcement - FT.com

National Storage Affiliates Trust, Public Storage

Public Storage to Acquire National Storage Affiliates, Creating Significant Value for All Stakeholders

Increases Public Storage’s leading brand and scale in key U.S. markets complementary with existing portfolio to meaningfully enhance omnichannel digital-first platform for customers

New joint venture created with NSA Operating Partnership unitholders with 313 properties providing attractive yield alternative to existing NSA OP unitholders in a tax-efficient way

Marks first value creation milestone under PS4.0™ plan delivering substantial growth opportunity of earnings per share in a leverage neutral transaction

Public Storage to wholly-own 488 of the over 1,000 properties on balance sheet focusing on key Sun Belt and core markets

All-stock transaction with an exchange ratio of 0.14, representing an implied offer price of $41.68 per NSA share

Detailed presentation available on Public Storage and National Storage Affiliates Investor Relations websites; conference call scheduled for March 16, 2026 at 8:00 a.m. ET

FRISCO, Texas & GREENWOOD VILLAGE, Colo.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Mar. 16, 2026-- Public Storage (NYSE: PSA, the “Company”), a leading owner and operator of self storage facilities, and National Storage Affiliates (NYSE: NSA) today announced an agreement under which Public Storage will acquire National Storage Affiliates in an all-stock transaction valued at an enterprise value of approximately $10.5 billion. NSA’s portfolio includes more than 1,000 properties, 69 million rentable square feet, and 550,000 units across 37 states and Puerto Rico. The combined company is expected to have a pro forma equity market capitalization of approximately $57 billion and total enterprise value of approximately $77 billion.

Under the terms of the agreement, holders of NSA common shares and operating partnership (“OP”) units will receive 0.14 of a share of PSA common stock or partnership units for each NSA share or unit they own, representing a total consideration of $41.68 per share based on PSA’s closing share price on March 13, 2026. Both companies’ Boards of Trustees have unanimously approved the transaction, which is expected to close in the third quarter of 2026, subject to the approval of NSA equity holders, and satisfaction of other customary closing conditions.

Immediately prior to closing, Public Storage and limited partners in NSA’s OP will form a joint venture (the “JV”) consisting of 313 properties on NSA’s operating platform comprising 19.6 million rentable square feet across 28 states and Puerto Rico with an estimated value of approximately $3.3 billion. OP unitholders are expected to own approximately 80% of the JV at inception, with PSA holding the remaining interest. The joint venture is expected to be capitalized with $2.2 billion of property-level secured debt, including a mezzanine loan investment from PSA of approximately $240 million, and operate at approximately 70% leverage. Public Storage will exclusively manage the joint venture portfolio and will earn customary property management, asset management and tenant reinsurance income.

PSA will repay NSA’s existing bank debt and senior unsecured notes while assuming its existing mortgage debt and Series A, B and A-1 preferred shares and units. Public Storage has arranged committed financing of $4.0 billion, to be provided by Goldman Sachs Bank USA and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, comprised of a $2.0 billion corporate bridge loan and a $2.0 billion joint venture off-balance sheet bridge loan which will become permanent secured mortgage financing.

“With the launch of the PS4.0 strategic vision focused on accelerated per share earnings and cash flow growth, this transaction will enable us to strategically and accretively expand our platform with assets that are highly complementary with our portfolio, deepen our significant market presence, and enhance our long-term per share growth profile,” said Tom Boyle, incoming CEO of Public Storage. “By applying our PS Next operating model to NSA’s portfolio, we see meaningful opportunity to enhance the customer experience, drive financial upside, and create significant value for shareholders over the near and long term as our industry emerges from the bottom of the self storage operating cycle. We look forward to welcoming NSA’s team and customers to our industry-leading platform.”

“This outcome reflects the incredible transformation we have undertaken over the past few years to refocus our portfolio, enhance operations, and drive growth,” said David Cramer, CEO of National Storage Affiliates. “This transaction with Public Storage follows a thorough process overseen by our Board of Trustees and will deliver a meaningful premium to NSA investors and enable our shareholders and OP unitholders to participate in the significant value creation upside of this combination. Public Storage is the ideal strategic fit for our company given their best-in-class brand, operating platform, and future growth profile. We could not be more excited to partner with the Public Storage team to take our platform to the next level. This combination is a testament to the visionary leadership of Arlen Nordhagen and the entire NSA leadership team, who pioneered the Participating Regional Operator (PRO) model to build a national platform through local expertise. By joining PSA, we ensure that the entrepreneurial spirit of our regional partners is preserved within a global platform capable of driving unprecedented scale. Together, we will provide our investors a highly compelling opportunity to participate in the growth and outperformance we expect to realize together.”

Strategic and Financial Rationale

Public Storage expects this transaction to result in immediate and long-term benefits for stakeholders of both companies, including:

- Positioned for future growth: The transaction integrates NSA’s assets into the PS4.0 framework, leveraging a platform designed to drive absolute and relative total shareholder return. This combination reinforces our existing PS Next competitive moat, providing a scalable foundation to fuel enhanced growth initiatives, including opportunistic acquisitions, development, expansion, and lending, while cementing PSA’s leadership in the third-party management sector through the PS Advantage platform.
- Fortress balance sheet: Public Storage’s A / A2 credit rating is the highest of any publicly traded U.S. REIT. The combined company will utilize this cost of capital advantage and increased free cash flow to fund significant future growth initiatives. Following realization of cost synergies, the transaction is expected to be leverage neutral.
- Meaningful earnings growth: The transaction is expected to be accretive to FFO per share within the first year of closing and approximately $0.35-$0.50 per share accretive upon the full realization of synergies in three to four years.
- Accelerated growth and profitability: NSA has demonstrated solid recent operating momentum, and applying PSA’s industry-leading revenue and expense management capabilities will help drive stronger organic growth and profitability. PSA’s operating platform advantage, with 78% same-store direct operating margins, compare favorably to NSA’s margins of 69% and those of public peers. The combined company expects to generate approximately $110 to $130 million of run-rate synergies within the next three to four years from revenue enhancements, operating efficiencies, tenant reinsurance uplift and G&A savings.
- New joint venture: Public Storage is utilizing a creative joint venture structure to deliver a “win-win” for PSA shareholders and NSA equity holders. At closing, a new joint venture comprised of 313 high cash flowing properties will be owned 80% by NSA OP unitholders and 20% by PSA. The joint venture provides NSA OP unitholders exposure to attractive yield, tax deferral, leverage, and the PS Next operating platform. This joint venture and NSA’s existing joint venture’s comprise approximately 54% of NSA’s existing properties; PSA will wholly-own 46% of NSA’s properties located in key growth markets that will drive cash flow growth for the combined shareholders.
- Complementary assets and markets : NSA owns a portfolio of efficient to operate, drive-up properties across a diverse set of markets that are strategic fits for the PSA platform and expands the combined company’s ability to service a broader range of customers. This diversification creates significant opportunities to enhance operations and profitability, while opening new growth avenues for PSA’s value creation engine.
- Expanded presence in high-growth geographies : NSA expands PSA’s exposure to markets that are poised for strong long-term growth based on demographic trends, including the Sun Belt region and other markets where NSA is strategically focused.
- Enhanced scale and leading brand: With the integration of more than 1,000 properties, 550,000 units, and multiple brands under the premier Public Storage® brand, the Company will enhance its position in both the physical and digital world. PSA expects to generate economies of scale across its portfolio, resulting in enhanced operating performance, margins, and customer value.

Advancing PS4.0

The acquisition of NSA reflects PSA’s first value creation milestone since the recent debut of PS4.0, the strategic vision to capitalize on industry leadership in a landscape of meaningful growth opportunities in self storage.

The value creation opportunity is fueled by operational execution within PS Next, Public Storage’s next-generation operating model. This will be aided by the combination of PSA’s scaled omnichannel digital-first platform, advanced data science, and exceptional talent to improve the financial profile of NSA’s assets. PSA’s structural advantages in operating efficiency and cost of capital create a value creation flywheel that enables the Company to consistently unlock greater profitability from acquired portfolios.

Public Storage will continue to be led by our incoming Chief Executive Officer Tom Boyle, as well as newly appointed Presidents Joe Fisher, Natalia Johnson and Chris Sambar and guided by a board led by non-executive Chairman, Shankh Mitra.

Conference Call

A conference call is scheduled for March 16, 2026 at 8:00 a.m. ET to discuss the transaction. The webcast link is available at https://events.q4inc.com/attendee/541649582. A replay of the conference call may be accessed by using the link at www.publicstorage.com under “About Us, Investor Relations, News and Events, Event Calendar.”

Advisors

Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, Wells Fargo, and Eastdil Secured are serving as financial advisors, Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz is serving as legal advisor, DLA Piper is serving as real estate financing counsel, and Kekst CNC is serving as strategic communications advisor to Public Storage.

Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC is acting as exclusive financial advisor, Clifford Chance US LLP is serving as legal advisor, and Joele Frank, Wilkinson Brimmer Katcher is serving as strategic communications advisor to National Storage Affiliates Trust.

About Public Storage

Public Storage, a member of the S&P 500, is a REIT that primarily acquires, develops, owns, and operates self storage facilities. At December 31, 2025, we: (i) owned and/or operated 3,533 self storage facilities located in 40 states with approximately 258 million net rentable square feet in the United States and (ii) owned a 35% common equity interest in Shurgard Self Storage Limited (Euronext Brussels: SHUR), which owned 332 self storage facilities located in seven Western European countries with approximately 18 million net rentable square feet operated under the Shurgard® brand. Our headquarters are located in Frisco, Texas.

About National Storage Affiliates Trust

National Storage Affiliates Trust is a real estate investment trust headquartered in Greenwood Village, Colorado, focused on the ownership, operation and acquisition of self storage properties predominantly located within the top 100 metropolitan statistical areas throughout the United States. As of December 31, 2025, the Company held ownership interests in and operated 1,063 self storage properties, located in 37 states and Puerto Rico with approximately 69.4 million rentable square feet, excluding three properties classified as held for sale, that were sold to a third party in January 2026. NSA is one of the largest owners and operators of self storage properties among public and private companies in the United States. For more information, please visit the Company’s website at www.nsastorage.com. NSA is included in the MSCI US REIT Index (RMS/RMZ), the Russell 1000 Index of Companies and the S&P MidCap 400 Index.