Trump: U.S. "obliterated every military target" on Iran's Kharg Island

The Pentagon is deploying a Marine Expeditionary Unit to the Middle East, a rapid response unit typically comprised of around 2,500 Marines and sailors, three officials familiar with the matter told CNN.

It’s not yet clear what the MEU will be used for or where exactly it will be deployed. But these units have traditionally been used for missions like large-scale evacuations and amphibious operations that require ship-to-shore movements, including raids and assaults. They also have a ground and aviation combat component and some units are trained for special operations.

Their presence gives commanders additional options for a range of contingencies, one of the sources said.

While Trump administration officials have said there are no current plans for ground troops in the country, they have also refused to rule it out.

The MEU deployment was first reported by the Wall Street Journal.

The US government is offering a reward of up to $10 million for information on key Iranian leaders, including the new Supreme Leader Mojtaba Khamenei.

The bounty, posted by the State Department’s Rewards for Justice Program, comes as the US and Israeli military campaign against Iran continues and after Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and other top Iranian officials were killed.

They are also seeking information on four unnamed and unpictured IRGC officials – Secretary of Defense Council, Advisor to the Supreme Leader, Military Office Chief in the Supreme Leader Office, and the IRGC Commander.

“These individuals command and direct various elements of the IRGC, which plans, organizes, and executes terrorism around the world,” the notice said.

“Since its founding in 1979, the IRGC has gained a substantial role in executing Iran’s foreign policy. The group now wields control over vast segments of Iran’s economy and is influential in Iranian domestic politics.”

In a similar bounty notice posted on X, the department adds that information on the leaders could make the tipster “eligible for relocation,” in addition to the reward.

Iranian missile debris sparks blazes near Tel Aviv

Falling debris from Iranian weapons caused blazes in two suburbs of Tel Aviv, Israeli officials said Friday.

Videos geolocated by CNN showed a large fire in Shoham, west of Tel Aviv. Another video showed multiple vehicles on fire in a street in Rishon LeZion, a suburb to the south.

An Israeli police spokesperson said fire and rescue teams were responding to the blazes, and that a team was “currently conducting searches for trapped individuals and extinguishing a fire that broke out at the site” in Shoham.

The spokesperson said firefighters were also working to extinguish the blaze at Rishon LeZion, where “interception debris” had set fire to the vehicles.

Another police spokesperson said that firefighters and bomb disposal experts were working at several sites in the central region of Israel after reports of falling missile debris. No casualties have yet been reported, the spokesperson said.

Earlier, video on social media showed what appeared to be missiles fitted with cluster munitions sending specks of orange light across Israel’s night sky. CNN has previously reported on how Iran is turning to cluster munitions to try to pierce Israel’s sophisticated air defenses.

CNN’s analysis of satellite imagery and air quality data shows Israeli strikes ignited fires and caused oil spills at multiple fuel depots across Tehran.

Israel struck Iran’s oil storage sites last weekend, where Tehran woke up to thick dark clouds and blackened rainfall.

CNN’s Katie Polglase explains how the strikes might be affecting the city’s residents:

Nine members of the Taqi family are buried today, a day after an Israeli airstrike killed them in the village of Irkay, south Lebanon.

“Let me see her, let me see her,” the woman cried as her four cousins were gently cradled out of the ambulance this morning. One white shroud bore the remains of two of their shattered bodies.

A day earlier — before the Israeli airstrike that killed them — Zaynab, 13, Zahraa, 12, Malika, 9, and Yasmina, 6, had played together in their grandparents’ courtyard.

Now, in the cemetery of the village of Irkay, in Lebanon’s south, the children lie side by side with their grandparents, uncles and cousin.

“Keep a good image of them in your head,” male relatives pleaded as they pulled their cousin back from the ambulance.

Their mother Suzanne Taqi climbed down into the graves, embracing them one last time.

Nine people from the family were killed in this single strike that came without warning from the sky.

On Thursday, the Israel Defense Forces ordered the whole of Lebanon to be evacuated to just south of this village.

The IDF has not provided information on the target of the strike.

“Everyone here knows what my girls meant to me,” the children’s father, Mohammed Rida Taqi, told CNN, one side of his face covered in bandages and angry red wounds from the blast.

Taqi said his daughter Yasmina had asked him for a necklace made of the words “daddy’s soul” instead of her own name.

After burying his children, he had one thing on his mind: searching through the rubble to find the necklace.

Sisters Zaynab, Zahraa, Malika and Yasmina were killed in the strike in southern Lebanon Thursday.

The death toll continues to rise in the war with Iran. All six US crew members aboard the refueling aircraft that crashed in Iraq yesterday are confirmed dead, US Central Command announced today.

Over 2,000 people — including civilians and military personnel — have been killed as a result of the war in Iran, CNN estimates have found, as the conflict drags into its 14th day.

Here’s what else you should know:

Fuel crisis: US gas prices edged up another 3 cents a gallon in the latest reading from AAA, taking the average price to $3.63 a gallon and marking a 22-month high in costs. The Strait of Hormuz is one of the world’s most vital shipping routes, and its effective closure with the war has sparked a global fuel crisis.

Iran’s ongoing near-total internet blackout: Iranian authorities say they arrested a 37-year-old for offering unfettered internet access through a Starlink device, according to state-supported media.

Israel’s troop buildup: An Israeli official said the Israeli Defense Forces are reinforcing troops in the northern border of Israel to Lebanon.

US pivot to Russian oil draws backlash: Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelensky criticized President Donald Trump’s administration today for easing sanctions against Russian oil.

Read some notable moments from Trump’s interview with Fox News’ Brian Kilmeade today:

- He said he believes Russia is helping Iran “a little bit,” but pointed to US support for Ukraine as justification.
- Trump said he doesn’t worry about potential threats on the United States following unverified reports about a potential Iranian drone attack in California. “I don’t worry about it, because if you did, you wouldn’t be able to function,” the president said.
- The president suggested his national security team doesn’t disagree much. “I convince them all to let’s do it my way,” he said.
- Trump said he will know when the war with Iran is over when he feels it “in my bones.”

CNN’s Chris Isidore, Kaanita Iyer, Pierre Bairin, Daria Tarasova-Markina, Issy Ronald, Alejandra Jaramillo, Betsy Klein, Kit Maher, Max Saltman, Sophie Tanno, Catherine Nicholls and Donald Judd contributed to this report.

The US refueling aircraft that went down over western Iraq Thursday, killing all six crew members on board, was not equipped with ejection systems or parachutes for crew to evacuate mid-air, an Air Force official told CNN.

The KC-135 Stratotanker is an aircraft that can refuel other US aircraft mid-air. Like cargo aircraft, it is generally kept “out of the threat ring as much as possible” when refueling during active operations, the official said, and the planes are not equipped with mid-air evacuation systems.

If something does happen, the official said, the crew is largely focused on maintaining flight or landing as safely as possible.

“There’s no ejection or potential for that in the sky,” the Air Force official said, but the crew “do practice all of those measures if they have a landing that’s survivable.”

It’s still unclear what happened on Thursday that resulted in the loss of one KC-135, and a second tanker being forced to make an emergency landing in Israel. The Islamic Resistance of Iraq claimed responsibility but did not provide evidence.

US Central Command said Friday that all six crew members were confirmed deceased, and that the incident was being investigated but that it was not due to hostile or friendly fire.

Iranian authorities say they arrested a 37-year-old for offering unfettered internet access through a Starlink device in Fars Province, according to state-supported media outlet ISNA.

Since the start of the war, the Iranian government has shut down internet across the country, and the arrest comes as Iran enters its third week of a near-total connectivity blackout, according to internet watchdog NetBlocks.

ISNA reported that the person arrested had set up a network using a Starlink device and “related equipment” to connect Iranians across multiple provinces to the internet without government permission.

Starlink, Elon Musk’s company that offers internet via a vast array of satellites, has provided one way for Iranians to speak to the outside world. Other workarounds include virtual private networks, or VPNs.

Not everyone is subject to the internet ban, however. Government-approved users still have access, including state-affiliated and state-owned news agencies and propaganda networks.

“Regarding internet access, efforts have been made—taking existing considerations into account—to provide facilities, particularly for individuals who can better convey the country’s voice to the world,” Iranian government spokesperson Fatemeh Mohajerani told state-owned news agency IRNA earlier this week.

People mourn as they attend a funeral ceremony for people killed in recent attacks, at Behesht-e Zahra cemetery, in Tehran on Thursday.

Over 2,000 people — including civilians and military personnel — have been killed as a result of the war in Iran, CNN estimates have found, as the conflict drags into its 14th day.

Most recently, six US service members have been confirmed dead after their refueling aircraft crashed in Iraq.

Here’s what we know about the deaths so far:

- Saudi Arabia: Two people were killed after a military projectile struck a residential facility in the city of Al-Kharj on March 8, the Saudi Civil Defense said.
- Oman: Three people have been killed in Oman, including an Indian national who died after an unmanned boat attacked the oil tanker he was working on 52 nautical miles off the Omani coast, the Oman News Agency reported. Additionally, two foreign nationals were killed in a drone “crash” in Oman’s Sohar district, the country’s defense ministry said Friday.
- Bahrain: One person was killed after debris from an intercepted missile sparked a fire on a “foreign vessel” in Bahrain’s Salman Industrial City, Bahraini state media said last week. Separately, a 29-year-old Bahraini woman died after an Iranian strike on the capital Manama, according to Bahrain’s Ministry of Interior.
- UAE: The United Arab Emirates’ defense ministry said on Tuesday that a total of six people of Emirati, Pakistani, Nepalese, and Bangladeshi nationalities have been killed as a result of “attacks.”
- Kuwait: Six Kuwaitis have lost their lives. This includes an 11-year-old girl who died from injuries sustained when shrapnel fell on a residential area on March 4.
- Iraq: 32 Iraqis have been killed, the majority of them soldiers from the Popular Mobilization Force (PMF). The PMF said in a statement that at least 27 of their members had been killed as of Thursday. A French soldier was also killed in an attack on a military base in Iraqi Kurdistan on Thursday.
- US: A total of 13 US service members have been killed since the start of the conflict, including six who lost their lives when their refueling aircraft crashed in Iraq on Thursday. A further six US service members were killed in an Iranian strike that hit a makeshift operations center in Kuwait on Sunday.
- Israel: At least 15 Israelis have been killed. This includes nine who were killed in a direct missile hit on a residential building on the city of Beit Shemesh, and two Israeli soldiers who were killed in southern Lebanon on Sunday morning.
- Lebanon: At least 773 people have been killed in Lebanon since Israel began strikes on the country, its ministry of public health said in an update on Friday. Among the dead are 103 children.
- Iran: More than 1,300 people have been killed in Iran since the start of the conflict, Iran’s ambassador to the United Nations said on Wednesday. More recently, figures from the US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRANA) have put this as much higher. According to their estimates on Friday, there have been at least 1,858 deaths, including civilians and military fatalities. The Iranian authorities have not updated the official tally in over a week.

The daughter of the first American service member who was killed in action during the war in Afghanistan said the White House’s continued use of memes to promote its war in Iran is “really gross stuff.”

Spann’s father, Johnny Micheal Spann, was a CIA paramilitary officer who was killed during an uprising of Taliban prisoners in November 2001. He was the first of nearly 2,500 Americans who would be killed over the course of the 20-year conflict. The 32-year-old served in the Marines before joining the CIA.

The White House, Pentagon and US Central Command’s social media accounts have used Hollywood-style vignettes that have incorporated memes and video games to promote the war in Iran as it enters its second week.

The video Spann reacted to uses clips from Wii video games, showing characters playing sports like golf and boxing, interspersed with videos of Iranian targets hit by the US. The video calls the strikes a “hole in one.”

The glib videos come as preliminary assessments have suggested the US was likely responsible for a strike on a primary school during its initial salvo in Iran, killing scores of people, many of whom were children.

CNN has reached out to the White House for comment.

Analysis from CNN’s Zachary B. Wolf: US propaganda vs. the emerging Iran war reality

A satellite image shows an oil terminal at Kharg Island, Iran, on February 25.

President Donald Trump dodged questions regarding occupying Iran’s Kharg Island — a stretch of land in the Persian Gulf referred to as the country’s oil lifeline — during an interview published today.

He told Fox News host Brian Kilmeade “I can’t answer a question like that,” before adding “it’s not high on the list.”

“Are you thinking about taking Kharg Island, where 90% of the Iranian oil goes through, and what do you think about…” Kilmeade asked Trump during a radio interview, before the president cut him off.

“OK, let’s say I was going to do it, or let’s say I wasn’t going to do it. What would I tell you? ‘Oh, yes, Brian, I’m thinking about doing it, let me, let me let you know what time and when it’ll take place.’ It’s not, you know, it’s sort of a foolish question, a little surprising for you, because you’re a smart man,” the president added.

Kharg Island is a five-mile-stretch of land off the Iranian coast that has seemingly been left untouched during the first two weeks of the war with Iran. The critical island handles roughly 90% of the country’s crude exports.

Experts have argued that attempting to capture or attack Kharg Island would require a significant number of ground troops — something the Trump administration has so far been reluctant to call in.

President Donald Trump said Friday he believes Russia is helping Iran “a little bit,” but pointed to US support for Ukraine as justification.

Pressed if he believes Russian President Vladimir Putin is supporting Iran following US strikes on the country, Trump told Fox News Radio in an interview, “I think he might be helping him a little bit, yeah, I guess. And he probably thinks we’re helping Ukraine, right?”

“Yeah, we’re helping [Ukraine] also,” Trump continued. “And so, [Putin] says that, and China would say the same thing. You know, it’s like, hey, they do it and we do it. In all fairness, they do it and we do it.”

Last week, CNN reported that Russia is providing Iran with intelligence about the locations and movements of American troops, ships and aircraft, according to multiple people familiar with US intelligence reporting on the issue.

Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth told reporters during a Pentagon briefing last week that Russia and China are “not really a factor” in the war with Iran.

This photo provided by the White House which has been partially blurred, shows President Donald Trump talking with White House chief of staff Susie Wiles as Secretary of State Marco Rubio listens at Mar-a-Lago during Operation Epic Fury on February 28.

President Donald Trump offered his views on decision-making in wartime, suggesting that he is limiting dissent among his top national security officials.

Kilmeade had asked Trump about disagreements in modern presidential history, pointing to Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld and Secretary of State Colin Powell sparring in front of President George W. Bush and Secretary of State George Shultz and Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger feuding in front of President Ronald Reagan.

President Donald Trump said he will know when the war with Iran is over when he feels it “in my bones,” offering yet another personal measure for when the conflict might come to an end.

Asked during a phone interview, aired Friday on “The Brian Kilmeade Show” on Fox Radio, when he will know the war is finished, Trump responded: “When I feel it, OK, feel it in my bones.”

Moments earlier in the interview, the president suggested the conflict may not last much longer.

The United States and Israel have continued military operations against Iran following the start of their assault on February 28. Since the campaign began, Trump has offered differing signals about how long the conflict could continue.

Pope Leo XIV addresses participants during the 36th Course on the Internal Forum organized by the Apostolic Penitentiary in the Clementine Hall at the Vatican on Friday.

Pope Leo XIV has suggested that Christian leaders who are responsible for wars should go to confession, with﻿out naming any conflict or individual specifically.

“Do those Christians who bear serious responsibility in armed conflicts have the humility and courage to make a serious examination of conscience and to go to confession?” the first US-born pope said during a speech in the Vatican today.

Although the pope didn’t name anyone directly, he has repeatedly appealed for peace in Iran and the Middle East, describing the situation as “deeply disturbing.” In January, Leo lamented that“war is back in vogue and a zeal for war is spreading.”

The pope’s latest remarks come as US Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth framed the US military intervention as supported by God, while some Christian leaders were recently seen praying over US President Donald Trump in the Oval Office during the Iran war. Vice-President JD Vance and Secretary of State Marco Rubio are Catholics.

Meanwhile, prominent figures in the US Catholic church have spoken out against the Iran war.

Cardinal Blase Cupich of Chicago has described a video posted on the White House’s X account about the war as “sickening,” while Cardinal Robert McElroy of Washington DC said the US-Israeli strikes are “not morally legitimate” as they don’t meet the criteria in Catholic teaching for a just war.

Leo’s speech was delivered to group of clergy and trainee priests who had gathered in Rome for a course on confession, known as the Sacrament of Reconciliation.

US President Donald Trump speaks during a Women's History Month event in the East Room of the White House on Thursday.

President Donald Trump said he doesn’t worry about potential threats on California or the United States following reports about an FBI memo that contained unverified information about a potential Iranian drone attack on the state.

“I don’t worry about it, because if you did, you wouldn’t be able to function. OK, so you can’t worry. You have to do something — and we watch everything at a level that it’s never been watched; our country has never been watched over like this,” Trump told “The Brian Kilmeade Show” on Fox Radio.

Pressed on whether the memo crossed his desk, Trump insulted California Gov. Gavin Newsom but did not address the validity of the threat.

“First we heard about it was from Gavin Newscum,” Trump said, using a nickname he often employs for the potential 2028 Democratic presidential candidate.

Newsom said Wednesday that “no imminent threat” exists. ABC News was first to report on the memo.

All crew members who were aboard the refueling aircraft that went down in Iraq Thursday have been confirmed dead, US Central Command announced today.

“All six crew members aboard a U.S. KC-135 refueling aircraft that went down in western Iraq are now confirmed deceased,” CENTCOM said in a post on X.

The military previously announced the deaths of four of the crew members aboard the aircraft.

CENTCOM shared in an earlier post that the incident is under investigation, but it determined that the crash “was not due to hostile fire or friendly fire.”

The Islamic Resistance of Iraq, an umbrella group of factions loyal to Iran, has claimed responsibility for downing the aircraft. The group did not provide evidence for its claims.

Another aircraft was also involved in the incident but it landed safely in Israel, the country’s ambassador to the US Yechiel Leiter said in a post on X.

The military is withholding the names of the deceased service members until 24 hours after next of kin are notified.

Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky delivers a speech during a press conference at the Elysee Presidential Palace in Paris on Friday.

Speaking at a joint news conference alongside his French counterpart Emmanuel Macron, Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelensky criticized the Trump administration for easing sanctions against Russian oil.

He claimed the step could provide Moscow with “around $10 billion” to fund its war in Ukraine, saying “that certainly does not help peace.”

The Trump administration issued a new license Thursday allowing countries to temporarily purchase certain Russian oil products already at sea, in an attempt to counter soaring oil prices.

His comments reflect growing concern across Europe that Moscow could profit from the war in Iran as the global economy searches for oil beyond the Middle East, and the world turns its attention away from Ukraine.

Macron sought to reassure Zelensky that “nothing will distract us from the efforts we are making in Ukraine” and reiterated French support for Kyiv.

“The context of rising oil prices must in no way lead to a review of our sanctions policy towards Russia,” he said, adding that Moscow is “mistaken” if it believes the war in Iran will ease any pressure on it.

French soldier killed: Macron also mourned a French soldier who was killed in an attack on a military base in Iraqi Kurdistan last night.

“This is obviously unacceptable,” he said. “Faced with the ongoing war, France’s position is purely defensive, in support of its allies, and can never justify any attack against it. France will continue to demonstrate composure, calm, and determination.”

US gas prices edged up another 3 cents a gallon in the latest reading from AAA, taking the average price to $3.63 a gallon. Gas prices are now at a 22-month high.

The average price has climbed 65 cents since the start of fighting in Iran two weeks ago and are up 69 cents, or 23.5% in the last month.

For context: This increase in gas prices is a reaction to the war in Iran and the near-total closure of the Strait of Hormuz, a crucial channel just off Iran’s southern coast through which 20% of the world’s oil normally passes, as well as retaliatory attacks by Iran on the oil facilities of its oil-rich neighbors such as the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil exporter.

Efforts to calm the markets have fallen flat. Dozens of countries announced earlier this week the largest release of oil from various oil reserves. The fact that oil continues to move higher indicates how little oil is available from such releases compared to what has been lost during the fighting.

Brent crude oil futures, the global benchmark, closed above $100 Thursday for the first time since 2022, when markets were roiled by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and the sanctions imposed on Russian oil at that time. Even with the United States lifting some of those sanctions, Friday prices for Brent were slightly higher in early trading.

After oil and wholesale gas prices saw a one-day drop early in the week following President Donald Trump’s comment that he expects the war to end “ very soon,” attacks on ships near the strait have once again sent futures sharply higher, suggesting more price increases will be coming to gas pumps nationwide. But even once oil futures start a sustained decline, it could take some time for retail gas prices to get back to pre-war levels.