Trump seeks to justify Iran war, but stated objectives shift | Reuters

Skip to main content

Exclusive news, data and analytics for financial market professionalsLearn more aboutRefinitiv

- Summary

- Public framing of Iran operation still being discussed, says White House official
- White House defends Trump's 'clear objectives' to safeguard US
- Trump's stated objectives for Iran war shift repeatedly

WASHINGTON, March 3 (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump sought to justify a broad, open-ended war on Iran in his most extensive public comments yet on an operation whose stated aims and ​timeline have shifted since it began over the weekend.

Trump said the U.S. and Israeli air attacks that began on Saturday had been projected to last four to five weeks but ‌could go on longer.

Sign up here.

The military campaign has killed Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, sunk at least 10 Iranian warships and struck more than 1,000 targets. Iran has responded by firing missiles and drones at neighboring Arab states and strangling shipping through the Strait of Hormuz, a key waterway for energy trade.

"We're already substantially ahead of our time projections. But whatever the time is, it's okay. Whatever it takes," Trump said at the White House on Monday, during his first public event since the conflict began.

He made ​no mention of regime change, saying the fight was needed to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon, which Tehran denies seeking, and to thwart its long-range ballistic missile program.

"An Iranian regime armed ​with long-range missiles and nuclear weapons would be an intolerable threat to the Middle East, but also to the American people," Trump said.

In a social media post ⁠overnight, Trump said there was a "virtually unlimited supply" of U.S. munitions and that "wars can be fought 'forever,' and very successfully, using just these supplies."

The remarks followed days of sometimes conflicting statements from the president, who had discussed ​the attacks in two brief videos and one-on-one interviews with select journalists over the weekend but did not give a televised address to the nation, as is customary in moments of military action. He took no questions ​from reporters at Monday's event.

White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt pushed back on suggestions the administration's messaging on the operation had been muddled.

On X, Leavitt said Trump had outlined "clear objectives," including preventing Iran’s proxies from launching attacks and stopping production of roadside bombs like those used against U.S. forces after the 2003 invasion of Iraq.

## VARYING MESSAGES

But U.S. Secretary of State Marco Rubio's comments to reporters in Congress indicating that Israel's determination to attack Iran effectively forced Washington to join the operation have only fueled ​the debate.

U.S. President Donald Trump speaks to the press, as he departs from the White House ahead of his trip to Corpus Christi, Texas, in Washington, D.C., U.S., February 27, 2026. REUTERS/Evelyn... Purchase Licensing Rights, opens new tab Read more

"The president made the very wise decision — we knew that there was going to be an Israeli action, we knew that that would precipitate an attack against American forces, and we knew that if we ​didn’t preemptively go after them before they launched those attacks, we would suffer higher casualties," Rubio said on Monday.

Days earlier, as Trump announced the strikes on Saturday, he urged Iranians to "take back your country," implying regime change was a goal ‌for Washington.

On ⁠Sunday, Trump told The Atlantic he was open to talks with whoever emerged to lead Iran and told the New York Times his January operation to capture Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro was a model for Iran's future.

In the case of Venezuela, former Maduro ally Delcy Rodriguez emerged as the new leader and has cooperated with Washington. In Iran's case, U.S. and Israeli strikes have eliminated many of those who could step in to take power, Trump said.

Trump’s timeline for the Iran operation has also shifted since it began. He first told the Daily Mail it could take “four weeks, or less,” then told The New York Times four to five weeks. In separate ​remarks on Sunday and Monday, he left open the ​possibility that the operation could continue longer until ⁠its objectives are achieved.

In his notification to Congress about the Iran strikes obtained by Reuters, Trump did not provide any timeline.

"Although the United States desires a quick and enduring peace, it is not possible at this time to know the full scope and duration of military operations that may be necessary," Trump wrote.

Jon Alterman of ​the Center for Strategic and International Studies, who has served as a State Department official focused on the Middle East, said Trump appeared to have deliberately ​left the war's ultimate outcome ⁠undefined.

"I'm not sure they're committed to any particular outcome," Alterman said.

When Trump ordered a much more limited attack against Iran during Israel's 12-day war in June, he immediately gave a formal address flanked by senior officials. After the Maduro operation, Trump held a press conference within hours at his Mar-a-Lago club in Florida and officials appeared on television multiple times to explain the move.

This time, senior administration officials skipped the Sunday shows to avoid competing narratives and keep ⁠Trump as the ​main messenger, a White House official said. The official said the public framing of the operation was still under discussion.

A second official ​said top aides were in secure rooms all day attending national security meetings and that the White House coordinated with Republican lawmakers scheduled to appear on television programs. The official pushed back against suggestions that messaging was still being developed, saying talking points had already ​been circulated by Saturday.