Anduril acquires ExoAnalytic Solutions in push for Trump's Golden Dome

Key Points

- Anduril said it is buying missile and satellite tracking firm ExoAnalytic Solutions in its first acquisition for its space business.
- Defense tech firms like Anduril are racing to acquire capabilities to win contracts for President Donald Trump's Golden Dome and military reindustrialization projects.
- Anduril, which last raised $2.5 billion at a $30.5 billion valuation in June, is in talks to roughly double its valuation in a new funding round, according to reports.

Palmer Luckey, founder of Anduril Industries, during a Bloomberg Tech interview at Anduril's headquarters in Costa Mesa, California, Oct. 10, 2025.

Kyle Grillot | Bloomberg | Getty Images

Anduril acquired missile tracking and intelligence firm ExoAnalytic Solutions as it extends its reach into U.S. defense interests in space, the company announced on Wednesday.

Through the acquisition, Anduril plans to mobilize ExoAnalytic's sweeping network of telescopes and missile defense tracking to gather data that improves its ground and satellite capabilities.

The defense tech firm is aiming to improve the Department of Defense's visibility in space as it becomes a "war-fighting domain," said Gokul Subramanian, Anduril's senior vice president of engineering for software programs.

"We believe the [Department of Defense] deserves the best catalog of everything going on in space across commercial and government-specific investments," he told reporters. "We want to be part of that solution for the warfighter."

## Read more CNBC tech news

- OpenAI's data center pivot underscores Wall Street spending concerns ahead of IPO
- From satellites to space data centers: Why low earth orbit is attracting billions in investment
- OpenClaw's ChatGPT moment sparks concern that AI models are becoming commodities
- OpenAI's first crack at online shopping stumbled. It's preparing for the next wave

President Donald Trump is pushing to create a $175 billion defense system to protect the U.S. from missile threats and rebuild deteriorating U.S. military systems.

Defense tech firms such as Anduril are scaling capabilities in a bid to win future contracts for the sprawling project, dubbed the " Golden Dome," where tracking systems and satellite data play a central role.

Anduril, which was founded by Oculus creator Palmer Luckey in 2017, is steadily scaling its portfolio of space and satellite defense capabilities as it pushes beyond its widely recognized autonomous drone technology. This is the company's first acquisition for its space business.

The company is also helping the U.S. Army build its $22 billion augmented reality headset program.

Media outlets reported this month that Anduril is in talks to raise billions and double its valuation. Anduril last raised $2.5 billion at a $30.5 billion valuation in June.

Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news.



Gecko Robotics brings its AI to U.S. Navy ship repair in latest next-gen defense tech deal

Samantha Subin



Op-ed: What $5 billion humanoid robots taught me about risk, jobs and the future of the economy

Ravin Gandhi



Stripe valued at $159 billion after tender offer for employees, shareholders

Chris Eudaily

Read More