Medtronic to buy Scientia Vascular in $550 million deal | Reuters

Skip to main content

Exclusive news, data and analytics for financial market professionalsLearn more aboutRefinitiv

A photographer takes images next to samples of Medtronic products at the company’s booth at the 8th China International Import Expo (CIIE) in Shanghai, China, November 6, 2025.REUTERS/Maxim... Purchase Licensing Rights, opens new tab Read more

- Companies

Medtronic Inc

Follow

Scientia Advisors, Llc

Follow

Medtronic PLC

Follow

March 10 (Reuters) - Medical device maker Medtronic (MDT.N), opens new tab​said on Tuesday it would buy U.S.-based Scientia ‌Vascular in a deal valued at $550 million, expanding its line-up of products used in stroke care.

Shares of the company were down ​more than 1% in early trading.

Sign up here.

Here are some ​details:

Scientia, based in Salt Lake City with about 310 ⁠employees, makes guidewires and catheters used to navigate ​blood vessels in the brain.

These guidewires and catheters can be ​seamlessly integrated into Medtronic's existing suite of neurovascular products, the medical device maker said.

The deal positions Medtronic with a full suite of ​products and supports procedures across both hemorrhagic and acute ​ischemic stroke, said Linnea Burman, senior vice president and president of ‌Medtronic's ⁠Neurovascular business.

Medtronic expects the deal to close in the first half of fiscal 2027.

Analysts at Leerink Partners said the deal supports Medtronic's broader plan to lift growth through ​acquisitions and reflects ​confidence in ⁠Scientia's underlying technology.

Evercore ISI said the acquisition is a well‑fitting tuck‑in that strengthens Medtronic's ​stroke portfolio and aligns with its existing ​neurovascular devices.

The ⁠company also expects the deal to be minimally dilutive to its adjusted earnings in 2027 and accretive thereafter.

Medtronic added ⁠that ​there could be potential earn-out and ​milestone payments post-acquisition, but did not disclose any further details on the ​same.

Reporting by Sahil Pandey in Bengaluru; Editing by Jonathan Ananda

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles., opens new tab

Purchase Licensing Rights

