Paramount to Combine HBO Max and Paramount+ to Challenge Netflix - Bloomberg

Warner Bros.:

Netflix Drops Bid

Paramount’s Political Game

Why Netflix Quit

$2.8 Billion Breakup Fee

Hollywood Impact

CNN’s Future

BackForward

Industries

Paramount signage in Times Square in New York.

Photographer: Michael Nagle/Bloomberg

Gift this article

Contact us:Provide news feedback or report an error

Confidential tip?Send a tip to our reporters

Site feedback:Take our Survey

By Hannah Miller

March 2, 2026 at 3:59 PM UTC

Save

Translate

Listen

3:55

Paramount Skydance Corp. said Monday that it will combine the Paramount+ and HBO Max streaming services into a single platform, following the company’s $110 billion acquisition of Warner Bros. Discovery Inc.

The company expects the transaction, which was formally signed on Feb. 27, to close in the third quarter. The deal came after months of effort on the part of Paramount Chief Executive Officer David Ellison to acquire the famed Hollywood studio and related assets such as HBO, CNN and TNT. Paramount won a bidding war with Netflix Inc., agreeing to pay $31 a share in cash for the company.

Copy Link

Loading...

Save

Contact us:Provide news feedback or report an error

Site feedback:Take our Survey

Confidential tip?Send a tip to our reporters

Before it's here, it's on the Bloomberg Terminal LEARN MORE

#### In this Article

Netflix Inc95.22

Follow

Paramount Skydance Corp9.61

Follow

Warner Bros Discovery Inc27.52

Follow

RedBird Capital Partners LPPrivate company

Before it's here, it's on the Bloomberg Terminal LEARN MORE

Home BTV+ Market Data Opinion Audio Originals Magazine Events

News

Markets Economics Technology Politics Green Crypto AI

Work & Life

Wealth Pursuits Businessweek CityLab Sports Equality Management & Work

Market Data

Stocks Commodities Rates & Bonds Currencies Futures Sectors Economic Calendar

Explore

Newsletters Explainers Pointed News Quiz Alphadots Game The Big Take Graphics Submit a Tip About Us

Terms of ServiceDo Not Sell or Share My Personal InformationTrademarksPrivacy Policy

CareersAdvertise

Ad Choices

Help©2026 Bloomberg L.P. All Rights Reserved.