Kristi Noem’s ouster could pave way to reopen shuttered Homeland Security Department | 2026-03-09: Senate sources said Noem’s firing from Homeland Security opened a path to a potential deal to reopen the Department of Homeland Security after a shutdown that had stretched into its third week. Senate Majority Leader John Thune (R-S.D.) called Noem’s departure a “major step” toward a deal, and a Senate GOP source said Republicans hoped it would persuade centrists to break with leadership and vote to reopen the government. Trump said on Truth Social that Sen. Markwayne Mullin (R-Okla.) would become head of Homeland Security “effective March 31, 2026,” pending Senate confirmation; Rand Paul (R-Ky.), chair of the Senate Homeland Security Committee, had not yet scheduled a hearing. Democrats were split: Peter Welch (D-Vt.) called Mullin “competent” and “honest,” Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.) called Noem’s firing “very good news” but said it did not change the administration’s underlying policies because “Stephen Miller is still at the White House,” and John Fetterman (D-Pa.) urged Democrats to reopen DHS because he refused to “punish government workers.” Negotiators discussed limited funding for TSA, the Coast Guard and FEMA, with Patty Murray (D-Wash.) proposing to fund those agencies separately from ICE and CBP; Republicans rejected splitting ICE from DHS as “a nonstarter.” More than 50,000 TSA agents and screeners missed their first paychecks, expected unscheduled absences were projected to rise to 10 percent, and airports already reported delays, including 62-minute standard waits at Houston George Bush Intercontinental Airport and 54-minute waits at St. Louis Lambert International Airport. Republicans also said the White House had offered “substantial concessions” to Chuck Schumer, though Trump’s March 8 Truth Social threat that he would not sign any bills until the SAVE America Act passed complicated the talks; Schumer warned that would mean “total gridlock in the Senate.” ### Trump’s new provisions to the SAVE America Act 'undercuts’ election message | 2026-03-09: NBC News said Trump’s push for the SAVE America Act, including new provisions, undercut his election message; Sahil Kapur discussed Trump threatening not to sign any bill until Congress approved the voter ID legislation. ### Trump's SAVE Act threat won't apply to DHS funding: White House | 2026-03-09: A White House spokesperson said Trump’s statement that he would not sign legislation until voting restrictions were approved would not apply to ending the DHS shutdown because, if Congress remains in session, bills can become law after 10 days even without a signature. The article said Trump’s March 8 Truth Social post declared the SAVE America Act “MUST GO TO THE FRONT OF THE LINE,” requiring proof of citizenship in person to register for federal elections and stronger photo ID rules, and Trump later said he would not support a “WATERED DOWN VERSION” and also wanted a near-total ban on mail-in voting. GOP leaders were still pushing to end the DHS funding lapse, the House was out for the rest of the week while Republicans met in Florida, and the White House said if Democrats passed DHS funding, “the President will, of course, fund the agency.” Trump had recently fired Noem after contentious hearings and picked Mullin as replacement. ### Donald Trump tells House Republicans: SAVE America Act will ‘guarantee the midterms’ | 2026-03-09: Speaking in Doral, Fla., Trump told House Republicans that passing the SAVE America Act would “guarantee the midterms” and “win every election for a long time,” saying, “It will guarantee the midterms. If you don’t get it, big trouble.” He said the bill would require proof of citizenship to register and ID to vote, had already passed the House 218-213 in February, and was stalled in the Senate because Democrats opposed it as a barrier to voting. He urged Republicans to add “no mail-in-ballots except for illness, disability, military or travel” and a ban on transgender athletes playing in women’s sports, and said, “I’m willing to just sort of say I’m not going to sign anything until this is approved.” Chuck Schumer responded on X that “The SAVE Act is Jim Crow 2.0” and that Senate Democrats would not help pass it “under any circumstances.” Trump also urged a “talking filibuster” to force Democrats to hold the Senate floor, while John Thune said that would be “much more complicated and risky than people are assuming at the moment.” ### Trump says ending Iran war will be 'mutual' decision with Netanyahu | Reuters | 2026-03-09: Reuters reported Trump said on Sunday that ending the war with Iran would be a “mutual” decision with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, telling The Times of Israel that Netanyahu would have input and “I’ll make a decision at the right time, but everything’s going to be taken into account.” ### When will the Iran war end? Trump hints at 'mutual' decision with Netanyahu - The Times of India | 2026-03-09: The Times of India likewise said Trump told The Times of Israel the decision on when to end the war would be made “mutually” with Netanyahu, while also claiming Israel would have been destroyed if he and Netanyahu had not intervened. The piece said the U.S. and Israel launched joint strikes on February 28 that killed Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and that White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt had said on Friday the conflict would last “between four and six weeks.” ### Trump says Iran war will end 'very soon' - AL-Monitor: The Middle Eastʼs leading independent news source since 2012 | 2026-03-09: AL-Monitor said Trump on Monday told reporters at his Doral National golf club near Miami, “I think soon. Very soon,” calling the war an “excursion” and saying “Everything they have is gone including their leadership.” Trump also said the United States was saving some of the “most important” targets in Iran, including the electrical grid, and threatened an “incalculable” strike if Iran blocked the Strait of Hormuz, saying, “We will hit them so hard that it will not be possible for them or anybody else helping them to ever recover that section of the world.” He called his call with Vladimir Putin “positive” and said Putin wanted to be helpful. ### Trump says war with Iran is ‘very complete’ and could end soon | March 9, 2026, 6:14 PM EDT / Updated March 9, 2026, 9:02 PM EDT | Trump described the conflict as a “short term” or “short-term excursion” while speaking to House Republicans and donors at his resort near Miami, saying, “We took a little excursion because we felt we had to do that to get rid of some evil.” He said, “It’s going to be ended soon,” but also said, “We could call it a tremendous success right now — as we leave here, I could call it — or we could go further, and we’re going to go further.” He warned again that if Iran restricted the Strait of Hormuz, the U.S. would hit Iran “tw