Iran's new supreme leader vows to keep blocking Strait of Hormuz as oil prices spike again | 2026-03-13: Iran’s new supreme leader Mojtaba Khamenei, 56, in his first public statement to the nation after being elevated four days earlier to succeed his father Ayatollah Ali Khamenei (killed in the U.S.-Israeli bombing campaign), defied calls by President Donald Trump and global markets to reopen the Strait of Hormuz and said on state television that “Certainly, the lever of blocking the Strait of Hormuz should still be used,” while saying Iran was “only targeting military bases” in neighboring countries “out of necessity” and that it believed in “friendship with our neighbors.” The piece tied the remarks to Iran’s attacks on shipping and energy infrastructure across the Middle East, especially the Strait, which carries 20% of the world’s crude supply and one-fifth of the world’s oil pass-through each year, and noted that oil and natural gas costs had spiked. It also said Khamenei vowed to “avenge the blood” of the “170 people, mostly children,” killed in a likely U.S. strike on Shajareh Tayyebeh elementary school in Minab, citing a preliminary U.S. military investigation that said outdated intelligence likely led to the strike and that American ordnance was probably responsible; a U.S. official and three sources said the school sat on a former IRGC base until about 15 years ago. Trump, in a Truth Social post just before the address, said “when oil prices go up, we make a lot of money,” and added: “BUT, of far greater interest and importance to me, as President, is stoping (sic) an evil Empire, Iran, from having Nuclear Weapons, and destroying the Middle East and, indeed, the World. I won’t ever let that happen!” The report also mentioned speculation that Mojtaba had been wounded in an airstrike and that state TV had used the word “janbaz” (“wounded by the enemy”), with a government adviser saying he was injured but “safe.” ### Netanyahu's Likud Party Makes No Gains Amid Iran War, Poll Finds - Israel Political News | 2026-03-13: A Channel 12 News poll published Thursday evening found that if elections were held today Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s Likud would still get 26 Knesset seats, exactly the same as in the previous poll taken two days before the Iran war began. The poll also gave 21 seats to Bennett 2026, 12 to The Democrats led by Yair Golan, 11 to Yashar led by Gadi Eisenkot, 9 each to Shas, Yisrael Beiteinu, and Otzma Yehudit, 7 to United Torah Judaism, 6 to Yesh Atid, 5 each to Hadash-Ta’al and the United Arab List, and 0 to Religious Zionism, The Reservists, and Kahol Lavan; it said Religious Zionism, Blue and White, The Reservists, and Balad failed to pass the threshold. The coalition bloc would have only 51 seats versus 59 for Netanyahu’s opponents, still short of the 61 needed without Arab-party support. In ratings of wartime leadership, Chief of Staff Eyal Zamir scored 7.4, Mossad chief Dedi Barnea 7.2, Netanyahu 5.6, Defense Minister Israel Katz 5, and Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich 3.8, using Midgam Institute and iPanel. ### Epic Anticlimax: Why Israelis Aren't Giving Netanyahu an Iran Bump in the Polls - Israel Political News | 2026-03-13: Dahlia Scheindlin’s analysis, timestamped 04:14 PM • March 13 2026 IST, argued that despite Israel and the U.S. “co-leading a dazzling war against Israel’s most mortal enemy,” polling showed no “rally ’round the flag” bump for Netanyahu’s coalition. ### As hopes of regime change in Iran fade, Netanyahu faces political test | 2026-03-13: Lucy Williamson’s Jerusalem analysis said Israeli leaders are recasting the Iran war as having changed the Middle East even without regime change in Tehran, after Benjamin Netanyahu’s long pursuit of a “fateful campaign for our very existence.” It said Netanyahu’s first press conference since the war began declared, “We can already say with certainty: this is no longer the same Iran, this is no longer the same Middle East, and this is not the same Israel,” but that signs of spiraling oil prices could pressure the U.S. to end the conflict and leave Netanyahu exposed if the regime remains. The piece noted the June 2025 Iran war, Israel’s claim that last year’s strikes removed two “existential threats” — nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles — and that the U.S. and Israel had planned the joint assault over several months. It said military officials claim damage this time is deeper, including leadership, production sites, missile stocks and launchers, but analysts like Neri Zilber warned that “Hamas still controls roughly half of Gaza” and Hezbollah still fights hard. It also described the second front with Hezbollah in Lebanon, where Israel’s stated objectives are to disarm the group and create a buffer, while Yaakov Amidror said “This will take considerable time” and the war is “the war of our generation.” ### Netanyahu says no guarantee of Iran regime change after war - The Japan Times | 2026-03-13: Bloomberg-reported comments said Netanyahu, in his first press briefing since the war began, acknowledged that the U.S.-Israeli strikes significantly weakened Iran and its clerical leadership but could not guarantee regime change without an internal uprising. He said, “We are creating the optimal conditions for a toppling of the regime,” and argued that aid for the Iranian opposition included Israeli airstrikes such as attacks on Basij roadblocks and soldiers in Tehran a day earlier. He added, “I can’t tell you with certainty that the Iranian people will bring down the regime. A regime is ultimately brought down from within.” ### Trump says US ‘obliterated’ military targets in strike on key Iranian oil hub | Fox News | 2026-03-13: Fox News reported Trump saying the U.S. had bombed Kharg Island, Iran’s largest oil terminal and a major crude-export hub about 35 miles off Bushehr province in the Persian Gulf, declaring on Truth Social that Central Command had “totally obliterated every MILITARY target in Iran’s crown jewel, Kharg Island.” The island has a loading capacity of about 7 million barrels per day and handles roughly 90% of Iran’s crude exports, mostly to China and India. Trump said he had deliberately chosen not to wipe out the oil infrastructure “for reasons of decency,” but warned that if Iran or anyone else interfered with “Free and Safe Passage of Ships through the Strait of Hormuz,” he would reconsider. The story said Brent had again punched above $100 a barrel for the first time since 2022, that the national average regular gasoline was about $3.63 a gallon and diesel $4.89, and that the Strait carries roughly 20 million barrels of oil a day and about one-fifth of global LNG. Trump said before boarding Air Force One that the Navy may start escorting tankers