Here’s how world leaders are reacting to operation 'Epic Fury' : NPR | 2026-02-28: world leaders reacted cautiously after the United States and Israel attacked Iran amid weeks of escalating tensions and a major U.S. military buildup in the region. U.N. Secretary General António Guterres condemned the “use of force” by the U.S. and Israel and Iran’s retaliation, saying both “undermine international peace and security,” and called for an immediate cessation of hostilities and de-escalation; the U.N. Security Council held an emergency meeting Saturday afternoon, chaired by Britain. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen called the situation in Iran “greatly concerning,” urging restraint, nuclear safety, respect for international law, and protection of the global non-proliferation regime; EU foreign policy chief Kaja Kallas called it “perilous” and stressed civilian protection while also saying the Iranian regime “has killed thousands” and its support for terror groups threatens global security. The E3—France, Germany and the United Kingdom—issued a joint statement saying they had long urged Iran to end its nuclear program, stop destabilizing actions, and “cease the appalling violence and repression against its own people,” said none of their countries participated in the strikes, and condemned Iran’s retaliation: “We condemn Iranian attacks on countries in the region in the strongest terms. Iran must refrain from indiscriminate military strikes.” Spain’s Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez rejected “the unilateral military action by the United States and Israel,” calling it an escalation and demanding “immediate de-escalation and full respect for international law”; Canada’s Prime Minister Mark Carney said Canada supports the U.S. “acting to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon” and called Iran “the principal source of instability and terror throughout the Middle East.” Russia’s Foreign Ministry called the U.S.-Israeli strikes “a pre-planned and unprovoked act” of aggression and warned of “uncontrolled escalation,” while China said it was “highly concerned” and called for an immediate stop to military actions, respect for Iran’s sovereignty and resumption of dialogue. Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy appeared to endorse the strikes, saying “it is important that the United States is acting decisively,” and tied Iran to Russia by noting more than 57,000 Iranian-designed Shahed drone strikes on Ukrainian cities. Omani Foreign Minister Badr Albusaidi, a mediator in U.S.-Iran talks, said he was “dismayed” by the coordinated attacks, warned the U.S. not to “get sucked in further,” and said “this is not your war”; he had been in Washington Friday meeting Vice President Vance and said Iran had agreed to zero stockpiling of nuclear enrichment. Lebanon’s Prime Minister Nawaf Salam said the region was witnessing “dangerous developments” and that Lebanon would not accept being dragged into threats to its security and unity. Australian Prime Minister Anthony Albanese said Australia “stands with the brave people of Iran in their struggle against oppression,” said calls for human rights had gone unheeded, and said Australia supports the U.S. acting to prevent Iran from getting a nuclear weapon. ### Fact-checking statements made by Trump to justify U.S. strikes on Iran | PBS News | 2026-02-28: this article fact-checked President Donald Trump’s justifications for the Feb. 28 U.S.-Israel bombing of Iran, in which he said Iran was building nuclear weapons that could “soon” reach the U.S. and that the U.S. had sought a deal after bombing three nuclear sites in June 2025 but Iran “rejected every opportunity to renounce their nuclear ambitions.” The piece notes Trump’s eight-minute Truth Social video ended by warning U.S. military members could be in danger and urging Iranians to overthrow their government. It says Trump’s missile-threat claim is contradicted by a 2025 federal government assessment and a Defense Intelligence Agency May 2025 missile threat assessment that said Iran could develop a long-range missile by 2035 if it chooses; Daryl Kimball of the Arms Control Association said the U.S. intelligence community has been making a similar assessment since the mid-1990s, while Richard Nephew said Iran already has missiles that can reach parts of eastern Europe and intercontinental missiles are still many years away. The article quotes Secretary of State Marco Rubio as saying, after Trump’s State of the Union language, “You’ve seen them increasing the range of the missiles they have now, and clearly they are headed in the pathway to one day being able to develop weapons that could reach the continental U.S.” It also says Trump did not seek congressional approval, as in June 2025 and during the January ouster of Venezuela’s Nicolás Maduro, and that Democrats and some Republicans were pushing war powers resolutions. On Trump’s claim that the sites at Fordow, Natanz and Isfahan were “obliterated,” the article says that contradicted a November 2025 White House document saying the strikes “significantly degraded Iran’s nuclear program,” and notes that Steve Witkoff said Feb. 21 Iran was “probably a week away from having industrial grade bomb making material”; the IAEA has been unable to access the sites and there is no independent confirmation of the damage. ### Trump cheers death of Iranian leader, says strikes will continue | Reuters | 2026-02-28: Reuters reported from Palm Beach, Florida, that Trump celebrated the U.S.-Israeli airstrikes that killed Iran’s leader and warned attacks would continue; the operation was named “Operation Epic Fury,” and Trump said the strikes aimed at destroying Iranian missiles and annihilating its navy. He posted that Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei had died, after a senior Israeli official said Khamenei’s body had been found; Iranian state media later confirmed his death. Trump wrote, “This is not only Justice for the people of Iran, but for all Great Americans, and those people from many Countries throughout the World, that have been killed or mutilated by Khamenei and his gang of bloodthirsty THUGS,” and said heavy bombing “will continue, uninterrupted throughout the week or, as long as necessary” to achieve “PEACE THROUGHOUT THE MIDDLE EAST AND, INDEED, THE WORLD!” U.S. Central Command said almost 12 hours after the first strikes that there were no U.S. casualties or combat-related injuries and minimal damage to U.S. installations. The article says this is the second series of U.S. strikes on Iran since Trump returned to the White House, after June strikes on nuclear sites. Senior U.S. officials said Iran refused to give up enrichment and used “games, tricks, stall tactics,” while another official said Iran’s missile program posed an immediate threat and could be used “potentially, preemptively” against American forces. Trump also called on IRGC members to lay down their weapons and said the Iranian people should “take over” their government, saying “It will be yours to take.” The White House distributed photos from Mar-a-Lago showing Trump in a white “USA” hat with CIA Director John Ratcliffe, Secretary of State Marco Rubio, Joint Chiefs chair Gen. Dan Caine and White House chief of staff Susie Wiles; Vice President JD Vance appeared in the Situation Room. Rubio had briefed congressional leaders beforehand, and lawmakers including Rep. Jim Himes and House Minority Leader H