11 Iranian Cluster Missiles Penetrated. One Dropped 70 Bombs Over Central Israel - National Security & Cyber | 2026-03-12: Haaretz’s Bar Peleg and Oded Yaron reported that on Thursday night, 22:59, central Israel again got missile alerts from Iran; seven minutes later sirens sounded, and four minutes after that videos showed dozens of bright points of light diving toward greater Tel Aviv, a signature of a cluster missile rather than an ordinary intercepted warhead fragment. The article says the missile was likely a Khorramshahr model, an Iranian ballistic missile whose warhead can disperse up to 80 bomblets; this one was documented by a Jordanian photographer from Amman and appeared to carry at least 70 bomblets. The bomblets fell across a 27-kilometer stretch from Peduel in the West Bank to Holon on the Mediterranean coast, with seven hitting populated locations and the rest landing in open areas. Haaretz said 11 cluster missiles have penetrated Israel’s air defenses since the war began, versus only three cluster missiles in last year’s war with Iran; security officials estimate Iran has launched about 250 missiles at Israel in the current war, roughly half cluster missiles. The article recounts that the first cluster missile on February 28 hit at least five sites, including Ramat Gan, where one bomblet gouged a crater in a yard and penetrated a basement ceiling to a depth of 15 centimeters, damaging a 90-year-old concrete-block building. It contrasts cluster warheads with conventional ballistic missiles, noting the latter can carry hundreds of kilograms of explosives and that two missiles striking Tel Aviv and Beit Shemesh killed 10 people. It says this week in Yehud two construction workers who stayed outside shelters were killed by cluster munitions, and two other Israelis outside shelters in Tel Aviv and Or Yehuda were seriously injured; the guidance to lie flat in an open area could have prevented serious injury. The piece includes expert and official comments from Tal Inbar of the Missile Defense Advocacy Alliance, who said such warheads were originally intended for area targets like airfields, soft vehicles and radar stations, and from Chief Superintendent Doron Lavi of the National Police Bomb Disposal Division, who said cluster munitions create “many small explosions, many scenes that need to be reached, many calls to emergency centers, greater panic, and the danger of unexploded ordnance.” It also notes that when cluster munitions are suspected, a special joint operations center for police and Home Front Command is opened. ### Iran's new supreme leader vows to keep Hormuz shut, Netanyahu issues threat | Reuters | 2026-03-12: Reuters reported from Dubai/Beirut on March 12 that Iran’s new Supreme Leader Mojtaba Khamenei said in his first attributed public comments since succeeding his slain father that Iran would “fight on” and keep the Strait of Hormuz shut as leverage against the United States and Israel, and that the “lever of blocking the Strait of Hormuz must continue to be used.” The statement, read by a state television presenter rather than delivered in person, called on Iran’s neighbors to close U.S. bases on their soil and warned Iran would continue to target them; Iranian officials said Khamenei was lightly wounded in the initial February 28 airstrikes, though the extent of his injuries was unclear and no images had been released since an Israeli strike killed much of his family, including his father and wife. Hours later, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu held his first press conference since the war began and issued a veiled threat to kill Khamenei, saying, “I wouldn’t issue life insurance policies on any of the leaders of the terrorist organization ... I don't intend to give an exact message here about what we are planning or what we are going to do.” The Reuters piece says the war had killed more than 2,000 people overall, including almost 700 in Lebanon, and that Israel’s strikes on Thursday hit a building in central Beirut while it ordered residents out of another swathe of southern Lebanon after Hezbollah fired its biggest volley of rockets into Israel since the war began. It reports oil prices jumped about 9% to $100 a barrel on fears of a severe disruption to global energy, while U.S. stocks fell and the S&P 500 logged its biggest three-day percentage drop in a month. It also says two tankers were ablaze in an Iraqi port after suspected Iranian explosive-laden boats, at least one crew member was killed, and three other ships were struck in the Gulf, with Iran’s Revolutionary Guards claiming responsibility for at least one attack. Reuters quoted a Tehran resident saying, “Security forces are everywhere, more than before. People are afraid to come out, but supermarkets are open,” and said Israel had struck Basij checkpoints in Tehran; it also reported Iran’s strategy was to impose prolonged economic shock and that a military command spokesperson warned of oil at $200 a barrel. ### Iran's new supreme leader issues first public statement since taking over regime - CBS News | 2026-03-12: CBS News said on March 12 that Iran’s new Supreme Leader Mojtaba Khamenei issued his first public statement since taking over the regime, demanded that all U.S. bases in the region be closed immediately, and threatened to continue operations to keep the Strait of Hormuz closed, with Ramy Inocencio reporting. ### US Navy Could Escort Hormuz Tankers by Month-End, Wright Says - Bloomberg | 2026-03-12: Bloomberg’s March 12, 2026 article by Courtney Subramanian said Energy Secretary Chris Wright told reporters the U.S. Navy could start escorting tankers through the Strait of Hormuz by the end of the month, adding that U.S. military assets were currently focused on destroying Iran’s offensive capabilities and weapons manufacturing but could shift to protecting shipping traffic in coming weeks. ### U.S. Navy to escort oil tankers through Strait of Hormuz when possible, Bessent says | 2026-03-12: This Reuters-style item says Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent told Sky News on Thursday that the U.S. Navy would begin escorting ships through the Strait of Hormuz as soon as it was “militarily possible,” possibly with an international coalition, and that the plan would go ahead once the U.S. had “complete control of the skies” and Iran’s missile rebuilding capability was “completely degraded.” It notes the Trump administration had been suggesting such escorts for more than a week, but on Thursday Energy Secretary Chris Wright said the Navy was not ready yet, saying, “It'll happen relatively soon but it can't happen now.” Bessent said the U.S. had done scenario analysis for months and claimed, “We have complete control of the skies,” while also saying “They have no air force, the [Iranian] Navy is sunk literally and figuratively.” He linked the plan to the blockade of the Strait of Hormuz and to the opening created by the war that began Feb. 28. ### U.S. Navy could escort vessels in Strait of Hormuz with international coalition, Bessent says | The Hindu | 2026-03-12: The Hindu’s March 13, 2026 update on the March 12 interview repeated that Scott Bessent said the U.S. Navy, perhaps with an international coalition, would escort vessels through the Strait of Hormuz when militarily possible and