Day 8 of Middle East conflict — Trump signals plans to escalate attacks, Iran vows to continue retaliatory strikes | CNN, Updated 12:26 AM EST, Sun March 8, 2026: CNN’s live coverage said the war entered “Day 8” with “mixed signals” from Iranian leadership, at least four people killed in central Beirut after a strike hit a hotel building, fresh Gulf aerial attacks and interceptions, and Trump signaling US attacks on Iran would intensify. CNN’s Tehran team heard new bomb blasts Saturday night as the Israel Defense Forces announced a “new wave of strikes” on Tehran; Iran’s state-affiliated Fars News Agency said US and Israeli bombing targeted an oil refinery in southern Tehran, while CNN crews saw a large fire in the south of the capital near oil and gas installations and reported thuds in the east, south and northwest for about an hour. The post said witnesses heard explosions in Bahrain, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates; debris from an intercepted projectile over Dubai killed a driver, and CNN teams were evacuated when debris from another interception damaged a high-rise in Dubai Marina. It also said the Trump administration declared an emergency and bypassed Congress to immediately sell 12,000 bombs to Israel, that a new Iranian supreme leader could be chosen within 24 hours, that Abbas Aragchi said a US attack on a desalination plant off Oman impacted water supply in 30 villages, that Kuwait cut crude output, and that an unidentified airstrike killed a member of Iraq’s Popular Mobilization Forces and wounded three others. Benjamin Netanyahu said Israel would continue to strike Iran “with all our might,” claimed “almost complete control” of Iran’s skies and said there were “many more targets and surprises prepared,” while threatening IRGC members: “You are in the crosshairs.” The article also described the dignified transfer at Dover Air Force Base in Delaware for the six American service members killed in an Iranian drone strike in Kuwait—Maj. Jeffery O’Brien, Capt. Cody Khork, Chief Warrant Officer 3 Robert Marzan, Sgt. 1st Class Nicole Amor, Sgt. 1st Class Noah Tietjens and Sgt. Declan Coady—attended by Trump, JD Vance, Usha Vance, Melania Trump and Cabinet officials; Trump said, “I will be going to Dover Air Force Base tomorrow… GOD BLESS THEM ALL!” It noted evacuation flights had already moved “thousands of Americans” out of the Middle East, US gas prices were up another 9 cents to $3.41 a gallon, Lebanese authorities said dozens were killed in an Israeli commando raid in a border region, HRANA put Iran’s civilian death toll since last Saturday at 1,172 and Lebanon’s toll since Monday at 294, and a senior Iranian official said Tehran was looking for new assets to strike in response to Trump’s threat to escalate. China’s Wang Yi warned the “flames of war” risk spreading, especially as Xi Jinping prepared to host Trump in Beijing. ### Iran's foreign minister rejects calls for a ceasefire: 'We need to continue fighting for the sake of our people' (published 2026-03-08, and also duplicated as the same title/date in the batch): In NBC News’ “Meet the Press,” Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi rejected a ceasefire, saying Iran needed “to continue fighting for the sake of our people,” accused the US and Israel of “killing our people,” “killing girl students” and “attacking hospitals,” and said there “needs to be a permanent end to the war.” He said the ceasefire from last year’s 12-day war had already been shattered, adding “And now you want to ask for a ceasefire again? This doesn’t work like this.” He confirmed cooperation with Russia was “not something new, it’s not a secret,” but did not say whether Russian intelligence was helping Iran find US forces; NBC had reported four sources saying Russia was providing intelligence on US forces in the Middle East, including warships. In a separate NBC interview, UN Ambassador Mike Waltz said he had “no doubt President Trump will deal with it accordingly” and described a “symbiotic relationship” between Russia and Iran; he said the US military was “decimating Iran’s air force, air defenses, navy, ground forces, command and control.” Araghchi said Iran was not attacking neighbors intentionally, but was striking “American bases, American installations, American assets” located in neighboring countries, and said Pezeshkian apologized for “the inconveniences” caused by US aggression and Iranian retaliation. He warned that if US ground troops entered Iran, “we have very brave soldiers who are waiting for any enemy who enters into our soil, to fight with them and to kill them and destroy them.” He called Trump’s claim that Iran would soon have missiles reaching the US “misinformation,” saying Iran intentionally kept missile range “below 2,000 kilometers.” He said “Nobody knows” who would replace Ali Khamenei, rejected Trump’s desire to be involved in choosing Iran’s next leader, and condemned Trump’s demand for “UNCONDITIONAL SURRENDER.” ### Crude oil prices swing wildly as the Iran war stretches on, Updated Monday, March 9, 2026 • 5:26 PM EDT: NPR said Brent crude surged well past $100 when markets opened Sunday, then retreated below $90 late Monday, while the Dow fell almost 900 points at one point before closing up 239. It said analysts had warned markets in the US and Europe were underpricing the conflict, while AAA showed the average US gasoline price had risen from just under $2.98 to $3.45 in a week, with diesel up nearly 90 cents. The story said the Strait of Hormuz, through which about 20% of the world’s oil and liquified natural gas typically passes, had seen traffic fall near a halt after US and Israeli attacks on Iran; prices moved from $70 before the attack to just over $80 by midweek, nearly $93 on Friday, and as high as close to $120 when markets reopened after the weekend. It quoted Rebecca Babin of CIBC Private Wealth saying traders had gone from “ice in their veins” to “panic in their veins.” It noted the G7 met Monday on possible reserve releases and the IEA urged stockpiles to be tapped, with over 1.2 billion barrels of public emergency oil stocks and 600 million barrels of industry stocks under obligation, but no release agreement. The article said Iran’s Revolutionary Guard declared the Strait closed and attacked tankers; Iraq, Kuwait and Bahrain stopped production in some fields because of storage problems, the US offered up to $20 billion in insurance coverage on a rolling basis for qualifying vessels, JPMorganChase estimated full Gulf tanker coverage would require more than $350 billion, and Lloyd’s Market Association warned shipowners may prefer neutral escorts over US ones because the US is a belligerent. It also said refineries and LNG facilities in Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the UAE had been targeted, while over the weekend Israel struck critical oil facilities in Tehran. ### Oil tankers burn near Iraq as Iranian strikes defy Trump's claim to have won the war / Iran threatens to retaliate against Gulf energy and water after Trump ultimatum: Reuters items in the batch said Iran appeared to have set ablaze two tankers in Iraqi waters while escalating attacks on oil and transport facilities across