Oil falls as Trump pressures allies to protect Strait of Hormuz | 2026-03-15: oil prices fell Monday as President Donald Trump ramped up pressure on allies to help safeguard tanker traffic in the Strait of Hormuz; Brent crude futures lost 2.84% to close at $100.21 per barrel and U.S. West Texas Intermediate futures fell 5.28% to settle at $93.50, after U.S. crude had surpassed $100 earlier in the session. ### U.S. oil tops $100 as Iran war shows no sign of ending soon | 2026-03-15: U.S. crude oil hit $100 per barrel Sunday and then jumped more than 2% to around $102 per barrel when futures trading resumed at 6 p.m. ET, while Brent crude rose to $106 per barrel; the article says the U.S.-Israeli war with Iran shows no sign of ending soon despite attempts by the Trump administration and allies to slow prices, notes the 32 countries in the International Energy Agency unanimously agreed Wednesday to release a collective 400 million barrels of oil in the largest emergency release ever, and says the national average price for unleaded gas was around $3.70 on Sunday, up about 70 cents since the U.S. and Israel launched wide-scale strikes on targets in Iran. It says U.S. oil prices are up nearly 50% since the war started and nearly 75% so far this year, that the Strait of Hormuz carries more than 20% of the world’s oil supply, that the U.S. struck Kharg Island on Friday, and quotes Trump saying, “We may hit [Kharg Island] a few more times, just for fun.” Energy Secretary Chris Wright said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” that the Strait is not safe for ships right now and that it could be a number of weeks before military escorts are possible. ### Oil poised for further gains as Middle East conflict threatens export facilities | 2026-03-15 | Reuters: Reuters said oil prices could extend gains at Monday’s open as the U.S.-Israeli war against Iran entered a third week, the Strait of Hormuz remained shut, and the International Energy Agency said more than 400 million barrels of oil reserves would begin flowing to market soon, with stocks from Asia Oceania released immediately and those from Europe and the Americas at the end of March. It said Brent and WTI surged more than 40% so far this month to their highest levels since 2022 after attacks on Iran prompted Tehran to halt shipping through the strait, that Trump plans to announce a coalition to escort ships through the Strait of Hormuz as soon as this week according to the Wall Street Journal, that he threatened more strikes on Kharg Island, and that Iranian drones hit a key oil terminal in Fujairah in the UAE while oil loading at Fujairah later resumed. It also named Saudi Arabia’s Ras Tanura export terminal and Abqaiq oil processing facilities as vulnerable. ### Trump demands other countries help secure vital Strait of Hormuz as Iran vows defiance | 2026-03-15 | Reuters: Reuters reported Trump said on Sunday the U.S. is talking to seven countries about helping secure the Strait of Hormuz, and on Air Force One he said, “I’m demanding that these countries come in and protect their own territory because it is their territory. It’s the place from which they get their energy.” He said he hoped China, France, Japan, South Korea, Britain and others would participate; the article also says Washington is in contact with Iran, that Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araqchi rejected ceasefire talks and said, “We have never asked for a ceasefire, and we have never asked even for negotiations,” and that Trump said oil prices “are going to come tumbling down as soon as it’s over, and it’s going to be over pretty quick.” It notes a coalition escort plan could be announced as early as this week, that Trump said the U.S. Navy would “soon” start escorting tankers, and that the passage has been effectively closed for most tanker traffic since the U.S. and Israel attacked Iran on February 28. ### Trump plans global coalition to escort ships in Strait of Hormuz amid Iran tensions: Report - The Times of India | 2026-03-15: this report said Trump was preparing to announce an international coalition to escort commercial vessels through the Strait of Hormuz, with White House announcement possibly coming this week, and that members of the administration said the U.S. Navy will support commercial vessels navigating the strait. It said Iran has restricted passage using sea mines and small vessels, that about 20 percent of the world’s daily oil supply passes through the strait, that Trump said “Many Countries, especially those who are affected by Iran’s attempted closure of the Hormuz Strait, will be sending War Ships, in conjunction with the United States of America, to keep the Strait open and safe,” and that he also hoped China, France, Japan, South Korea, Britain and others would send ships. ### Socialist leads Paris mayoral race but leftist rival threatens to split vote - France 24 | 2026-03-15: France 24 said Socialist Party candidate Emmanuel Grégoire took a commanding lead in the first round of Paris mayoral elections on Sunday, with official results giving him 37,98% against conservative former minister Rachida Dati’s 25,46%; Pierre-Yves Bournazel, hard-left candidate Sophia Chikirou and far-right Sarah Knafo cleared the 10% threshold for the second round. Grégoire, backed by a left-wing alliance including the Greens and Communists, said, “The women and men of Paris have put us clearly in the lead in this first round,” while Chikirou said she was “waiting for a call” from Grégoire for an “anti-fascist front.” The article notes a runoff on March 22, Dati resigned as culture minister to focus on Paris, Grégoire has ruled out an alliance with LFI, Dati urged Bournazel to rally behind her, and Dati faces a September trial over allegations of corruption and abuse of power, which she denies. ### Socialist leads Paris mayoral race but leftist rival threatens to split vote - France 24 | 2026-03-15: the duplicate France 24 version repeats that Emmanuel Grégoire led with 37,98% and Rachida Dati had 25,46%, that Bournazel, Chikirou and Knafo all crossed 10%, and that the race’s outcome may depend on whether runoff alliances form before March 22. It again notes the 25 years of left-wing mayors Bertrand Delanoë and Anne Hidalgo, the roadwork, debt and nursery-school abuse scandal, and Dati’s September trial. ### Municipales à Paris: quinquangulaire en vue, Grégoire finit largement devant | 2026-03-15: AFP’s French-language piece said five lists qualified for the second round in Paris municipal elections, with Emmanuel Grégoire’s PS-Les Ecologistes-PCF alliance at 37,98% ahead of Rachida Dati’s LR-MoDem list at 25,46%. It said Dati, ex-minister of culture and mayor of the VIIe arrondissement, proposed a “fusion”