Analysis: If Trump said Iran’s nuclear program was ‘obliterated,’ why is he looking to strike again? | CNN Politics | 2026-02-24. Aaron Blake argued that Trump and his team have spent months insisting June 2025 U.S. airstrikes “obliterated” Iran’s nuclear program, yet in February 2026 they are again threatening military action over Tehran’s nuclear ambitions. The piece notes that in March 2025 the U.S. intelligence community assessed Iran was “not building a nuclear weapon,” but in June Trump launched strikes anyway, then immediately declared on June 21, 2025, “Iran’s key nuclear enrichment facilities have been completely and totally obliterated.” Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth echoed him on June 22, saying, “Iran’s nuclear ambitions have been obliterated,” and on June 24 Trump posted, “It was my great honor to Destroy All Nuclear facilities & capability, and then, STOP THE WAR!” CNN says an early U.S. intelligence assessment reported the strikes did not destroy the core components of Iran’s program and likely only set it back by months, yet Trump repeatedly used variants of “obliterated” afterward, including “obliterated Iran’s nuclear enrichment capability” (January 20), “We knocked out the Iran nuclear threat, and it was obliterated” (January 8), “We obliterated their nuclear capability” (December 11), “... completely obliterated Iran’s nuclear capability” (November 11), and “It’s been obliterated” (July 31). The article says Trump’s current rationale is more about building a case for a future strike than proving success from the past, with JD Vance saying, “Our primary interest here is, we don’t want Iran to get a nuclear weapon,” Trump saying, “They can’t have nuclear weapons; it’s very simple,” and Steve Witkoff warning Iran is “probably a week away from having industrial-grade bomb-making material.” It closes by noting that Iran warned on February 23, 2026, that any attack would be met “ferociously.” ### Sen. Bill Hagerty: Fed chair nominee Kevin Warsh is 'the man for the moment' | 2026-02-24. This appears to be a CNBC “Squawk Box” segment description, not a full article; it says Sen. Bill Hagerty (R-Tenn.) joined to discuss President Trump’s State of the Union address tonight, the state of the economy, and Fed chair nominee Kevin Warsh, whom Hagerty called “the man for the moment.” ### Trump tariff chaos gives Beijing a win before Xi meeting - The Washington Post | 2026-02-24. Cate Cadell’s Washington Post piece says Trump is preparing for a grand welcome in Beijing next month, previewing last week that he wanted the “biggest display you’ve ever had in the history of China,” but a Supreme Court ruling that dealt a blow to his tariff regime has rearranged the negotiating table before his planned meeting with Xi Jinping. The article frames Trump’s tariffs as a prized cudgel against Beijing that is now weakened. ### Stripe Considers Acquisition of All or Parts of PayPal (PYPL) - Bloomberg | 2026-02-24. Bloomberg reported that Stripe Inc. is considering acquiring all or parts of PayPal Holdings Inc., according to people familiar with the matter. Stripe, a closely held payments company and one of the industry’s most valuable firms, has expressed preliminary interest in buying PayPal or its assets. ### Stripe is considering acquisition of all or parts of PayPal, Bloomberg News reports | Reuters | 2026-02-24. Reuters said Stripe is considering an acquisition of PayPal (PYPL.O) or parts of the digital payments pioneer, citing Bloomberg News and people familiar with the matter. PayPal shares closed nearly 7% higher, and LSEG data put PayPal’s market value at over $40 billion. Stripe was valued at $159 billion in a tender offer for employees and shareholders on Tuesday. Reuters added that PayPal and Stripe declined to comment; PayPal had just ousted CEO Alex Chriss earlier in February after issuing a muted 2026 profit outlook, and the board named chair Enrique Lores as president and chief executive. The story says PayPal has been pressured by softer retail spending, high interest rates, high living costs, and a weakening job market, while investors worry about Apple and Google encroaching on digital payments. ### Viking uncovers chunky tungsten hits in Nevada’s long-lost grounds | 2026-02-24. The piece says Viking Mines is pushing to bring early tungsten production from its recently acquired Linka project in Nevada, USA, after digitizing historical data from 70 holes and 2881 metres of drilling. At the Conquest area, 650m northeast of the Linka Main pit, 32 historical holes for 959m confirmed high-grade, thick tungsten mineralization, including 12.2m assaying 1.3 per cent tungsten trioxide from 26.5m, with 1.5m at 4.8 per cent tungsten trioxide from 32.6m down-hole, plus 22.9m at 0.6 per cent tungstite from 19.8m including 6.1m at 1.2 per cent from 36.6m, and another hole with 22.9m grading 0.5 per cent oxide from 5.5m including 11.3m at 0.6 per cent tungstite from 26.2m. Managing director Julian Woodcock said finalizing the digitization of the Linka dataset was “another significant milestone achieved” and that the data validated “the exceptional opportunities presented by this high-grade tungsten mineralised system.” Historical drilling averaged just 30m depth and maxed at 56m, leaving untested potential; the company says the mineralized corridor is 1.6 km long, tungsten prices in Rotterdam ammonium paratungstate were US$1,650–1,900 per metric tonne unit, up almost 500 per cent in a year, and U.S. procurement changes under DFARS in 2026 are expected to restrict tungsten from certain countries. Viking is designing a maiden drill program and preparing a Notice of Intent for reverse circulation drilling to start in the June quarter. ### Warner Bros reopens door to Paramount, putting Netflix deal in doubt | Reuters | 2026-02-24. Reuters reported that Warner Bros Discovery opened the door on Tuesday to Paramount Skydance after the rival bidder raised its offer to $31 per share, intensifying a studio bidding war that may cost Netflix its preferred-suitor status. Paramount raised its termination fee to $7 billion from $5.8 billion and agreed to pay Warner shareholders 25 cents per share per quarter for every quarter beyond September 30 that the deal does not close, plus more equity if banks worry about financing. Warner’s board said it has not yet determined whether the Paramount proposal is superior to Netflix’s, but if a superior deal emerges Netflix has four business days to revise its offer. Paramount’s bid is for the whole company at $31 per share in cash; Netflix’s offer is $27.75 per share in cash, totaling $82.7 billion including net debt, for Warner’s movie and TV studios, catalog and HBO Max streaming service, while Warner plans to spin