Likud Minister Says Israeli Elections to Be Moved Up to July for Netanyahu Bloc to Capitalize on Iran War - Israel Political News | March 03, 2026: Likud minister Gila Gamliel said on Tuesday that national elections will likely be brought forward to late June or July 7, instead of October, because many Israelis will likely “want to go on vacation” in August after the Iran war. The article centers on an anticipated acceleration of Israel’s election calendar, with the key date “July 7” cited as a likely target and the political calculation being that the Netanyahu bloc could capitalize on wartime momentum before the usual October vote. ### Israel PM Benjamin Netanyahu says Iran conflict won’t be ‘endless war’ - The Hindu | Updated - March 03, 2026 09:03 am IST - WASHINGTON: In a Fox News interview broadcast on Monday (March 2, 2026), Benjamin Netanyahu insisted the U.S.-Israeli war against Iran would not be an “endless war,” saying, “You’re not going to have an endless war,” and, “This is going to be a quick and decisive action.” He added the conflict “may take some time, but it’s not going to take years,” and argued Israel and the United States had to act because Iran had been building new nuclear and ballistic-missile sites after the June “12-day war,” including “new sites, new places, underground bunkers” that would have made its programs “immune within months.” He also said, “If no action was taken now, no action could be taken in the future,” while the article noted Donald Trump’s estimate had shifted to a war that could last “more than four weeks.” ### Netanyahu: U.S.-Israel Strikes Will Foster Regime Change in Iran, Pave Way to Normalization With Saudi Arabia - Israel News | March 03, 2026: In Washington, Ben Samuels reported that Netanyahu’s Monday-night Fox News interview linked the current U.S.-Israeli strikes to an opportunity for Iranian regime change, reinforcing his view that toppling the Islamic Republic could open “many peace treaties” across the region and bring Israel-Saudi normalization “very close.” The piece ties Netanyahu’s argument to “Operation Epic Fury,” his claim that Iran is at its weakest since it “hijacked Iran from the brave Iranian people 47 years ago,” and his assertion that the strikes would create “the conditions for the Iranian people to get control of their destiny, to form their own democratically elected government.” He specifically named Saudi Arabia as a country that has “a lot to gain” from Iran’s fall, invoked the Abraham Accords as “four peace treaties with four Arab countries,” and rejected claims that Trump was “dragged into a war with Iran,” calling Trump “the strongest leader in the world.” ### Netanyahu insists US and Israel's strikes on Iran won't lead to 'endless war' - March 02, 2026 - Fox News: Joseph Wulfsohn’s Fox News article likewise quoted Netanyahu on Monday assuring Americans there would not be an “endless war” in the Middle East as the United States and Israel continued striking Iran. Netanyahu said Iran’s regime was at its weakest point in “47 years” and repeated that it would be “a quick and decisive action” that could “usher in an era of peace that we haven't even dreamed of.” He linked regime change to “many peace treaties,” said peace between Saudi Arabia and Israel would be “very close,” and again credited Trump with the Abraham Accords, while also saying no one had to “drag him into anything” because “Donald Trump is the strongest leader in the world.” The same story said the assault was done under “Operation Epic Fury” and that Iran had been building underground bunkers that would make its missile and atomic-bomb programs “immune within months.” ### Netanyahu says war against Iran may take 'some time', but not years - AL-Monitor: The Middle Eastʼs leading independent news source since 2012 | Mar 2, 2026: Reuters, republished by AL-Monitor, said Netanyahu told Fox News on Monday that the war “may take some time” but “it’s not going to take years.” The article states the U.S. and Israeli air war against Iran began with attacks on Tehran on Saturday, killing Iranian Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei and prompting Iranian retaliation against Israel and missile attacks at Arab nations with U.S. bases across the Middle East. It says Trump initially projected the war would last “four to five weeks,” later said it could go on longer, and on Monday shifted his stated aim from regime change to preventing Iran from developing a nuclear weapon and thwarting its long-range ballistic missile program. Netanyahu said the campaign created conditions for Iranians to topple their government, but “it’s up to the people of Iran” to change the government in the end. ### Likud Minister Says Israeli Elections to Be Moved Up to July for Netanyahu Bloc to Capitalize on Iran War - Israel Political News | March 03, 2026: A duplicate item of the first article again reported Gila Gamliel’s Tuesday comment that elections would likely be moved to late June or July 7, not October, because Israelis would want August vacation after the Iran war. ### Middle East conflict widens as Israeli, US strikes again hit Iran; oil soars, shares slide | Reuters | March 3, 2026: Reuters reported from DUBAI/TEL AVIV that on Tuesday Israeli and U.S. forces pounded targets across Iran while Iranian retaliatory strikes spread “around the Gulf” and into Lebanon, rattling markets and sending oil prices sharply higher. Trump said the U.S. military had struck numerous Iranian naval and air targets and that “just about everything has been knocked out,” while also saying he attacked because he had “a feeling” Iran would attack after nuclear talks stalled. Iranian drones hit the U.S. embassy in Saudi Arabia after previously hitting the mission in Kuwait, leading Washington to shut the embassies in Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Lebanon and order non-emergency personnel out of much of the Middle East. The article says a source told Reuters the war plan had been set for two weeks but was moving faster than expected, with early success in killing Iran’s leaders, including Khamenei in the opening salvoes on Saturday. It also says Tehran was repeatedly shaken by explosions, Israel hit IRIB, an area near Mehrabad airport, and the Minzadehei underground nuclear development site, while a building housing the Assembly of Experts in Qom was flattened; one Tehran resident, Bijan, 32, described the city as empty, with “smoke and blood everywhere,” and another, Firuzeh Seraj, said she feared taking her 10-year-old daughter for dialysis after a hospital strike. On the market side, crude gained 5%, European wholesale gas was up 40%, U.S. retail gasoline averaged $3.11 per gallon, and Wall Street indexes were down after European and Asian markets lost more than 3%. The piece says Iran claimed 787 deaths, including 165 girls killed when a school was bombed, and that Hezbollah fired into Israel while in Lebanon “dozens were killed.” ### Who will succeed Khamenei? : NPR | March 3, 2026: NPR’s interview with Iran scholar Mehrzad Boroujerdi said “Iran’s supreme leader is dead, but the regime endures,” and