Who is Mojtaba Khamenei, possible candidate to replace father as Iran leader? | 2026-03-04: Mojtaba Khamenei was named to lead Iran after his father, Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, was killed in U.S.-Israeli airstrikes, and the piece says he was elected by the 88-member Assembly of Experts, even though father-to-son succession is traditionally frowned upon in the Shiite clerical establishment as too close to hereditary monarchy after the 1979 revolution. President Trump called Mojtaba an “unacceptable” choice and said in an Axios interview on Thursday, “Khamenei’s son is unacceptable to me. We want someone that will bring harmony and peace to Iran.” Mojtaba is believed alive and in hiding, and his wife, Zahra Haddad Abdel, was also killed in the strikes. Born in Mashhad, Iran, in 1969, a decade before the Islamic Revolution, he moved to Tehran after the Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi was ousted and Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini became Iran’s first supreme leader in 1979. He joined a division of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps in the 1987-88 Iran-Iraq war, worked in Tehran offices while his father ruled, and was described in late-2000s U.S. diplomatic cables obtained by WikiLeaks as “the power behind the robes”; a 2008 cable said some regime insiders saw him as “a plausible candidate for shared leadership of Iran upon his father’s demise.” The UN sanctioned him in 2019, accusing him of advancing his father’s “destabilizing regional ambitions and oppressive domestic objectives.” The article says he allegedly backed Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s 2005 election and 2009 reelection, with opponent Madhi Karroubi calling him “a master’s son” and alleging interference. It also lists possible alternatives if Mojtaba is killed, including Hassan Khomeini, Ruhollah Khomeini’s grandson; former President Hassan Rouhani; Ayatollah Alireza Arafi; and Ayatollah Mohammed Mehdi Mirbagheri. Rep. Yassamin Ansari (D-Ariz.) said military force alone “will not secure” a democratic future, and wrote on X, “I want nothing more than a free Iran and safety and security for innocent Iranians,” adding that it requires “more than force.” First published on March 4 at 9:15 a.m. EST. ### Meet Mojtaba Khamenei, 'the power behind the robes' and presumptive favorite to assume power as Iran's Supreme Leader | Fortune | March 4, 2026, 7:55 AM ET: Fortune/AP says Mojtaba Khamenei, son of the late Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, had long been considered a contender to become Iran’s next paramount ruler even before an Israeli strike killed his father at the start of the war last week, despite never having been elected or appointed to government. ### Who is Mojtaba Khamenei, Iran's new supreme leader? | Reuters | March 9 (Reuters): Reuters reports that the 56-year-old mid-ranking cleric Mojtaba was chosen by the Assembly of Experts to succeed his late father, in a sign hardliners still controlled Iran, more than a week after Ali Khamenei was killed in an air strike; member Ayatollah Mohsen Heidari Alekasir said a candidate was selected based on Khamenei’s guidance that Iran’s top leader should be “hated by the enemy,” and noted that “Even the Great Satan (U.S.) has mentioned his name,” after Trump called Mojtaba an “unacceptable” choice. The story says Mojtaba amassed power as a senior figure close to the security forces and their business empire, opposed reformers seeking engagement with the West, and built influence behind the scenes as his father’s “gatekeeper.” Kasra Aarabi of United Against Nuclear Iran said Mojtaba has strong support in the IRGC, especially among “the younger radical generations.” He studied in Qom, holds the clerical rank of Hojjatoleslam, has never held a formal government position, and has rarely spoken publicly; critics say the rank is below ayatollah and that he lacks the credentials to be supreme leader. The U.S. Treasury sanctioned him in 2019, saying he represented the supreme leader in “an official capacity despite never being elected or appointed to a government position,” and U.S. sanctions language said he worked with the IRGC’s Quds Force and the Basij “to advance his father’s destabilising regional ambitions and oppressive domestic objectives.” Reuters also says protesters targeted him during unrest over the 2022 death of a young woman in police custody, and that in 2024 a video showed him suspending jurisprudence classes he taught in Qom. He resembles his father and wears the black turban of a sayyed. A 2007 U.S. cable cited him as a possible avenue to reach Ali Khamenei; another in 2008 said he was a plausible candidate for shared leadership. His wife, the daughter of hardliner former parliament speaker Gholamali Haddadadel, was killed in last Saturday’s airstrikes. ### Could the UK go to war with Iran? Britain’s situation explained | 2026-03-04: The article’s visible excerpt says Sir Keir Starmer’s decision to allow US forces to use joint military bases brings Britain closer to the conflict launched by America and Israel, framing the UK’s role as tied to base access rather than direct independent war aims. ### Exclusive: Minutes from disaster — how Qatar shot down two Iranian bombers in its first aerial combat operation | CNN | Updated Mar 4, 2026, 4:12 PM ET; PUBLISHED Mar 4, 2026, 3:04 PM ET: CNN says Iranian bombers were “two minutes” from striking al-Udeid Air Base, the largest US troop base in the Middle East, before Qatari warplanes shot them down in Qatar’s first aerial combat mission. On Monday morning, Iran’s Revolutionary Guard sent two Soviet-era Su-24 tactical bombers toward al-Udeid, which typically houses 10,000 US service members, and Ras Laffan, a key natural gas facility. One source said the planes were “two minutes” from their targets; another said they were spotted carrying bombs and guided munitions, flying at 80 feet to evade radar, ignored radio warnings, were classified “hostile,” and then were engaged by a Qatari F-15 in “aerial combat” before crashing into Qatar’s territorial waters. Qatari Foreign Ministry spokesman Majed al-Ansari said a search was underway for the crews. The report says Iran has fired hundreds of missiles and drones toward Arab states along the Gulf after U.S.-Israeli strikes, and that Ali Khamenei was killed in the first wave Saturday when strikes devastated his compound in Tehran; US Gen. Dan Caine later said, “Qatari fighters for the first time have shot down two Iranian bombers on route to their location.” Qatari Prime Minister Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani told Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi the attack was “escalatory” and showed “no genuine desire” by Iran to deescalate, saying it seeks “to inflict