Gold gains on fears of prolonged Middle East conflict | Reuters, 2026-03-01, said safe-haven gold rose on Monday as concerns grew that U.S. and Israeli strikes against Iran could turn into a prolonged Middle East conflict; spot gold was up 0.4% at $5,297.31 an ounce by 1831 GMT after earlier rising more than 2%, U.S. gold futures settled 1.2% higher at $5,311.60, the metal hit a record $5,594.82 on January 29, the U.S. dollar index rose 1%, and David Meger of High Ridge Futures said the market was trying to judge whether the attacks would continue “over the next several weeks.” The piece said Israel attacked Lebanon in response to Hezbollah strikes, Tehran kept up missile and drone attacks on Gulf states, President Donald Trump said a “big wave” of further attacks was imminent, oil and gas prices surged after facilities were shut and shipping in the Strait of Hormuz was disrupted, Dubai bullion flows would be “severely curbed” because of cancelled flights, gold was up nearly 23% this year after a 64% jump in 2025, silver fell 5.7% to $88.46 an ounce, platinum fell 2.7% to $2,300.50 and palladium lost 0.9% to $1,770.66. ### Investors seek harbour in gold as US and Israel strike Iran | Reuters, 2026-03-01, compiled trader and analyst reactions to the joint strikes, with Edward Meir of Marex saying gold and oil would likely see a “knee jerk spike” and that gold might open “by about $200/ounce” before drifting lower, Hugo Pascal at Inproved saying tokenised gold traded at a premium over the weekend with PAX Gold (PAXG) at $5,344/oz (+2.2% since Friday) and Tether Gold (XAUt) at $5,292/oz (+1.2%), Tim Waterer at KCM Trade saying gold would be in higher demand on Monday because of uncertainty over the conflict’s length, possible wider war and inflation fears, Fawad Razaqzada of City Index and Forex.com saying prices could rise to around $5,500 and perhaps a new record above January’s peak of around $5,600, Tai Wong saying gold and silver could sell off “on the fact” but buyers would return, ANZ’s Soni Kumari saying the initial reaction would be positive, Joshua Rotbart warning of “enhanced volatility with upward movement,” and Ole Hansen of Saxo Bank saying the escalation would drive investors into precious metals and energy and might print a fresh record high. ### Reza Pahlavi: 'Iran's Prosperity Project': Tehran's exiled crown prince Reza Pahlavi unveils democratic transition plan after Khamenei’s death - The Times of India, 2026-03-01, reported that Iran’s exiled crown prince Reza Pahlavi welcomed the announcement of Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei’s death after joint US-Israeli military strikes, praised US President Donald Trump, and posted on X that “Ali Khamenei, the bloodthirsty despot of our time… has been erased from the face of history,” saying the Islamic Republic had effectively ended and would soon be consigned to “the dustbin of history.” His “Iran Prosperity Project” proposed a referendum to draft and ratify a new constitution, internationally supervised elections, and then dissolution of the transitional government; he urged military, law enforcement and security forces to help a stable transition and told citizens, “This may be the beginning of our great national celebration, but it is not the end of the road,” adding, “The time for a widespread and decisive presence in the streets is very near. Thanks to President Trump, their hour of liberation is at hand… the Iranian people know they are not alone.” The article also said he wrote in a Washington Post op-ed for unity among monarchists, republicans, liberals, leftists and religious and ethnic minorities around territorial integrity, individual liberties, separation of religion and state, and the right to choose government, and envisioned “the Cyrus Accords,” including recognition of Israel and regional peace; it noted he is the eldest son of Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, born in Tehran in 1960, formally named crown prince in 1967, left Iran in 1978 for U.S. military training, studied political science at USC, and declared himself Shah in exile after his father’s death in 1980. ### Reuters | Breaking International News & Views, 2026-03-01, said the U.S.-Israeli attacks have left Iran grappling to rebuild its leadership in its biggest test in five decades even as Tehran struck Israel and the United Arab Emirates, killing several people. ### Venezuela’s opposition leader Machado says she will return to country | AP News, 2026-03-01, said Venezuelan opposition leader and 2025 Nobel Peace Prize winner María Corina Machado said on Sunday she will return to Venezuela in the coming weeks and that elections will be held there; she did not set a date but said one goal would be to prepare “for a new and gigantic electoral victory,” and urged supporters to “strengthen the unity of Venezuelans that began with the primaries,” referring to the 2023 process in which she won the vote to choose a unified challenger to Nicolás Maduro. The AP version said acting president Delcy Rodríguez, in power since Maduro and his wife were captured in a U.S. military operation in January, warned Machado “will have to answer” if she returns; U.S. Secretary of State Marco Rubio said any change in Venezuela must go through stabilization, economic recovery and transition, with no short-term election timeline; Machado, 58, had earlier received the Nobel Peace Prize for democratic transition efforts and later gave her medal to Donald Trump after the military intervention that removed Maduro, who now faces drug-trafficking-related charges in U.S. courts and has pleaded not guilty. The article also recalled the July 2024 election protests, repression, and the opposition claim that Edmundo González actually won after Machado was barred. ### Opposition leader Maria Corina Machado says she will return to Venezuela in coming weeks | Reuters, 2026-03-01, said from Miami that Machado plans to return in the coming weeks according to a social-media message; it identified her as a 58-year-old industrial engineer who left Venezuela in December for Oslo to receive the award and is currently in the United States, noted speculation has grown since the U.S. captured former leader Nicolas Maduro on January 3, and said she is under investigation in Venezuela while interim president Delcy Rodriguez said she should have to “answer to Venezuela” for supporting U.S. military action against Caracas. ### Venezuela’s opposition leader Machado says she will return to the country in the coming weeks - The Washington Post, 2026-03-01, repeated the AP report from Caracas that Machado will return in coming weeks and elections will be held, with her saying she wanted to prepare “for a new and gigantic electoral victory.” ### Opposition leader Machado says she will return to Venezuela in the coming weeks | PBS News, 2026-03-01, likewise said Machado will return in coming weeks, that she has called on supporters to “strengthen the unity of Venezuel