Stocks making the biggest moves midday: ORCL, NBIS, CPB, SERV, CDRE

Stocks making the biggest moves midday: ORCL, NBIS, CPB, SERV, CDRE

Market Insider
# Stocks making the biggest moves midday: Oracle, Papa John's, Nebius, Campbell's, Serve Robotics, Cadre and more
Published Wed, Mar 11 202612:18 PM EDTUpdated Wed, Mar 11 20261:19 PM EDT

Scott Schnipper

WATCH LIVE

Check out some of the companies making the biggest moves midday: Oracle — Oracle jumped 10% after the cloud infrastructure company gave strong fiscal third-quarter results and lifted its revenue guidance for fiscal 2027. Management lifted its fiscal 2027 revenue outlook by $1 billion to $90 billion. Analysts polled by LSEG had estimated $86.6 billion. Papa John's — Shares of the pizza chain surged 18% on the news it received a $1.5 billion takeover bid to go private, T he Wall Street Journal reported . Investment firm Irth Capital Management offered Papa John's $47 per share, a 50% premium against the stock price before the announcement. Campbell's Co . – Shares of Pepperidge Farm cookie and Goldfish cracker maker slid more than 7.5% after disappointing fiscal second-quarter earnings. Campbells' earnings and revenue missed analyst estimates, as did full-year guidance, according to FactSet. Net sales in its snacks business fell by 6% and U.S. soup sales declined by 4%, helping to send the stock to a 23-year low. Nebius Group — The artificial intelligence cloud company climbed 15% after Nvidia announced a $2 billion investment to "enable Nebius to deploy more than 5 gigawatts of capacity by the end of 2030" and support Nvidia's AI infrastructure buildout, a statement said. Uber Technologies - The ride-hailing firm rose nearly 3% after Amazon's Zoox unit agreed to a multiyear partnership with Uber that will soon make the company's toaster-shaped robotaxis available via the app in the U.S. Uber plans to offer Zoox driverless rides in Las Vegas this summer, and in Los Angeles next year. Cintas , UniFirst – Cintas advanced more than 2% after the company said it would acquire UniFirst for $310 per share, a deal valued at roughly $5.5 billion. The transaction is expected to close in the second half of 2026. Baird also upgraded Cintas to outperform following the announcement. UniFirst shares gained 9%. Serve Robotics – Shares of the autonomous robotics company jumped nearly 13%. Serve posted a fourth-quarter loss of 46 cents per share, narrower than the FactSet consensus call for a loss of 48 cents per share. Revenue for the full year also surpassed Wall Street's estimates. Separately, Serve announced a partnership with White Castle to launch autonomous delivery via Uber Eats. AeroVironment — Shares of the drone maker fell 7% on the back of weak fiscal third-quarter results, including large revenue miss. AeroVironment earned an adjusted 64 cents per share on revenue of $408 million in the period, less than the 69 cents per share on $476 million that analysts were expecting, according to LSEG. Cadre Holdings — Cadre, a maker of safety products, plunged more than 15%. The company reported fourth-quarter earnings of 27 cents per share versus the 40 cent-per-share estimate by analysts surveyed by FactSet. Revenue of $167.2 million also fell short of the $182.9 million forecast. Sprinklr — The provider of enterprise cloud software products rose 4% after fourth quarter earnings and revenue, and first-quarter revenue guidance, all topped Wall Street analysts' consensus estimates.