President Donald Trump vowed Sunday to "avenge" the deaths of three U.S. service members killed in action as the conflict involving Iran deepens across the Middle East.

"As one nation, we grieve for the true American patriots who have made the ultimate sacrifice for our nation," Trump said in a video statement posted on Truth Social.

"Even as we continue the righteous mission for which they gave their lives, we pray for the full recovery of the wounded and send our immense love and eternal gratitude to the families of the fallen."

This map shows the targets of Iran's retaliatory strikes.

The president struck a somber note, warning that "sadly, there will likely be more before it ends."

"America will avenge their deaths and deliver the most punishing blow to the terrorists who have waged war," Trump said. "Our resolve and likewise that of Israel has never been stronger."

Trump’s remarks, his first public statement since the U.S.-Israel strikes that led to the death of Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and several senior Iranian officials, signaled a potentially prolonged confrontation.

"This wretched and vile man had the blood of hundreds and even thousands of Americans on his hands and was responsible for the slaughter of countless thousands of innocent people all across many countries," Trump said.

President Donald Trump delivers a nearly six-minute address providing an update on Operation Epic Fury on March 1, 2026.

He said U.S. forces had struck "hundreds of targets" inside Iran, including key Revolutionary Guard facilities, air defense systems and naval assets. Trump said the U.S. "knocked out nine Iranian ships "in a matter of literally minutes." Military operations, he added, would continue "until all of our objectives are achieved."He went on to issue a direct warning to Iran’s Revolutionary Guard and military leadership, urging them to surrender in exchange for immunity or face "certain death."

Ahead of the strikes, the U.S. military amassed what Trump previously called an "armada" in Iran’s backyard. Mapped out across the Persian Gulf and beyond, the deployment tells its own story, one of calculated pressure backed by credible capability.

At the center of the U.S. presence are two aircraft carrier strike groups — the USS Abraham Lincoln and USS Gerald R. Ford — each supported by guided-missile destroyers and cruisers and capable of sustained air and missile operations.More than a dozen additional U.S. warships are also operating in the region in support roles, according to defense officials.

An F-35B with Marine Medium Tiltrotor Squadron (VMM) 265 (Reinforced), 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit (MEU), took off April 18 from the flight deck of the amphibious assault ship USS America.

Meanwhile, Tehran has vowed retaliation for the strikes. Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian declared that avenging Khamenei’s killing is both a "legitimate duty and right," and added that Tehran "will forcefully crush the enemy's bases."The confrontation has already included missile and drone strikes launched by Iran against U.S. bases in Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates and Iraq, though U.S. Central Command has denied Tehran’s claims of successfully targeting American carriers.

Demonstrators march during a protest against war in Iran in New York City on Saturday, Feb. 28, 2026.