Netanyahu: ‘You’re not going to have an endless war’ | CNN



Netanyahu: ‘You’re not going to have an endless war’

Speaking in an interview with Sean Hannity on Fox News, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu pushed back against criticism that the latest conflict would spiral into an “endless war” in the Middle East, claiming instead that it would lead to peace and democracy in Iran.

01:07 • Source: CNN

Vertical World News 7 videos

Netanyahu: ‘You’re not going to have an endless war’

Speaking in an interview with Sean Hannity on Fox News, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu pushed back against criticism that the latest conflict would spiral into an “endless war” in the Middle East, claiming instead that it would lead to peace and democracy in Iran.

01:07 • Source: CNN

Israeli airstrike hits bridge in Lebanon

The Israeli military struck a critical bridge in Southern Lebanon over the Litani River on Sunday amid escalating tensions with Hezbollah.

00:41 • Source: CNN

Journey from Beijing to Pyongyang by train

Follow CNN’s Justin Robertson as he boards the only direct train from Beijing to North Korea. The route, suspended during the pandemic, resumed operations in March.

00:59 • Source: CNN

Cubans plunged into darkness twice in a week

Cuba is suffering a second nationwide power outage within a week amid a worsening energy crisis and a US oil embargo, leaving streets dark, school hours cut and hospitals struggling to keep the lights on. CNN's Patrick Oppmann reports.

01:27 • Source: CNN

How the Gulf became key to Iran War

The Persian Gulf has become one of the key battlegrounds of the Iran War – and one where the US is looking vulnerable, CNN's Matthew Chance reports from Doha, Qatar.

01:36 • Source: CNN

Rescues underway in Hawaii's 'largest flood in 20 years'

Hawaii’s Oahu island has been battered by the largest flooding in 20 years, according to Gov. Josh Green. Crews have rescued hundreds of residents, as others on the northern shore have been issued evacuation orders.

00:40 • Source: CNN

Inside a Hezbollah tomb

This shrine in a Hezbollah stronghold of Beirut is filled with bodies of civilians and fighters, many of whom died in the previous conflict with Israel in late 2024. Some graves carry a picture of the late Iranian supreme leader, Ali Khamenei. CNN’s Nick Paton Walsh saw families visiting to mourn their dead.

00:40 • Source: CNN

See more videos