Shooting in a boat off Cuba spotlights Florida's political groups | AP News | 2026-02-28: In late February 2026, a stolen boat departing the Florida Keys toward Cuba was at the center of a gunfire incident that left four people dead; Cuban authorities said the men aboard were terrorists trying to infiltrate Cuba, while U.S. Secretary of State Marco Rubio, who rose in Miami’s Cuban exile politics, called it a “highly unusual” sea shootout and said he would investigate the Cuban claims. The Cuban Ministry of the Interior unveiled evidence saying more than 12,800 pieces of ammunition and a dozen high-powered weapons were found aboard, while family members in Miami told Spanish-language influencers their loved ones were peaceful. The episode revived the history of anti-Castro groups such as Alpha 66 and Omega 7, described as counter-revolutionary organizations strongest in the 1970s and 1980s; Alpha 66 deputy secretary general Ernesto Díaz called the dead men martyrs, former member Antonio Tang said he trained with Alpha 66 at a camp called Rumbo Sur (Direction South) in the Everglades after fleeing Cuba in 1981 and going into exile in Canada, and Tang dismissed the group as “amateurs” and “no match” for Cuban forces. The article tied that world to past violence including an assassination plot targeting Fidel Castro during his 1979 UN visit and the 1980 shooting death of a Cuban diplomat in New York, and it noted former intelligence officer Enrique Garcia, who defected to the U.S. in 1989, saying the Q-2 department spent decades co-opting armed resistance groups; Garcia also said the timing of the attack was suspicious amid Trump administration pressure on Cuba after Nicolás Maduro’s ouster, and William LeoGrande said Cuban Americans are focused more on influencing U.S. policy than paramilitary action. It also identified Michel Ortega Casanova as a former leader in Tampa associated with the Republican Party of Cuba, with his brother Misael Ortega Casanova calling Michel’s quest for freedom “obsessive and diabolical,” and said the victims’ relatives in Miami portrayed them as peaceful, including Hector Cruz Correa’s ex-wife Marina Luz Padron describing him as an excellent father to their 4-year-old child. ### Who might be the new leader of Iran? There’s no clear successor | CNN | 2026-02-28: After the killing of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei in joint U.S.-Israeli strikes reported in late February 2026, Iran named a provisional leadership council consisting of Ayatollah Alireza Arafi, President Masoud Pezeshkian, and Gholam-Hossein Mohseni-Eje’i; constitutional succession is handled by the Assembly of Experts, the elected body of 88 senior clerics, while a temporary council under Article 111 is made up of the president, the head of the judiciary, and a senior cleric from the Guardian Council. The article weighed possible successors including Mojtaba Khamenei, Khamenei’s second son and a non-cleric sanctioned by the U.S. in 2019 who is close to the IRGC and Basij; Hassan Khomeini, grandson of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, custodian of the Khomeini mausoleum, barred from running for the Assembly of Experts in 2016 and seen as less hardline but lacking strong ties to the security elite; Mohammad Mehdi Mirbagheri, a hardline Qom cleric who heads the Islamic Sciences Academy and once said half the world’s population dying would be “worth it” if it brought closeness to God; Hashem Hosseini Bushe