Reuters | 2026-03-05 | Expanding Iran conflict threatens Brazil grain exports, fertilizer supplies: Reuters reporters Ana Mano and Roberto Samora said analysts see the Middle East war escalating because of military actions by the United States and Israel, with disruptions centered on the Strait of Hormuz, where bulk cargoes such as corn are being affected. Arthur da Anunciacao Neto of Alphamar Agencia Maritima said maritime insurance costs have risen in “increasingly dangerous waters”; Alphamar data showed ten ships scheduled to leave with more than 600,000 tons of Brazilian soybeans and soymeal bound for Iran in the days after March 5. Iran bought 20% of Brazil’s corn exports in the prior year, some 9 million tons, while Brazil imported 7.7 million tons of urea in the previous year, with Iran officially accounting for less than 2.5% of that total even though private estimates put Iranian-origin urea at 1.3 million to 1.4 million tons. Consultancy Agrinvest said 2025 data showed Brazil’s urea needs were covered 100% by imports and that 41% of urea imports, nearly 3 million metric tons, passed through Hormuz; Agroconsult’s Francisco Vieira said nothing was expected to arrive from Iran and there was uncertainty about whether factories there were being bombarded. StoneX’s Renato Françoso said the Middle East exports 22 million tons of urea annually, about 40% of global supply, and warned that conflict could hit Brazil’s 2026/2027 crop cycle; Hudie Consulting founder Thamires Cateli said sellers withdrew urea price lists. Françoso also noted Egypt, which relies on Israeli natural gas, provides about 8% of global fertilizer supplies, Russia accounted for an estimated 16% of global urea supplies in 2024, and a February drone attack on a fertilizer plant in Smolensk highlighted Russian supply-line risks. Argus said shippers were considering Oman as an alternate unloading point, though it was unclear whether cargoes could then reach final destinations by truck or rail. ### The Verge | 2026-03-05 | Netflix is buying Ben Affleck’s AI startup: Charles Pulliam-Moore reported Netflix’s purchase of InterPositive, the AI startup founded by Ben Affleck in 2022, with Affleck becoming a senior adviser and 16 engineers and researchers moving to Netflix. In a video with Netflix CTO Elizabeth Stone and head content officer Bela Bajaria, Affleck described InterPositive as using dailies—raw footage from in-progress productions—rather than text prompts, to create post-production assets such as edits removing stunt wires, plus tools to reframe shots, manipulate backgrounds, and help filmmakers mix, color correct, and develop special effects while preserving “the power of human creativity and the people behind it.” Affleck said he entered production as AI was first rising there, found many tools lacking, wanted technology with “the vocabulary that matched the language cinematographers and directors already spoke,” and said the models include the consistency and controls filmmakers expect; he said the goal is for audiences not to know or care that more films and series were crafted with AI. Netflix, which lost the Warner Bros. bid to a rival, plans to use InterPositive on its own projects, though timing and method were not announced. ### Cell Death Discovery | 2026-03-05 | Cetuximab co-treatment with KRAS G12C inhibitors fulzerasib and sotorasib in human KRAS G12C non-small cell lung cancer cells: Daniel Olmo-González, Rafael Rosell, Jordi Codony-Servat, Ana Giménez-Capitán, Mengxin Zhou, Fusheng Zhou