Oil surged and stocks sank as the war in Iran threatened crude supply. In CNN Business’s “Oil surges and stock futures sink as war in Iran threatens crude supply” | 2026-03-01, by David Goldman, Matt Egan, Chris Isidore, and John Liu, US crude oil futures jumped "7.5%" in early March 2026 after weekend US and Israeli strikes against Iran, while Brent crude on Monday, March 2, 2026 spiked "6.2%" to around "$77 a barrel"; pre-market gains were strong for defense names Northrop Grumman and Lockheed Martin, while Exxon and Chevron also rose because higher oil prices tend to boost profits. Trump suggested the conflict could last "Weeks." The article stressed Iran’s leverage: OPEC called it the "third-largest" holder of proven oil reserves and the "sixth-largest" oil producer, and the Strait of Hormuz carries about "20 million barrels" a day, or about "one-fifth" of daily global oil production, making it a "critical oil chokepoint" per the US Energy Information Administration. In June 2025’s Israel-Iran conflict, Iran did not close the strait even though vessels avoided it, and Goldman Sachs had warned prices could blow past "$100 a barrel" if a prolonged disruption hit the waterway. Jorge Leon of Rystad Energy said there was an "effective halt of traffic"; Clayton Seigle of the Center for Strategic and International Relations said a loss of Iranian barrels would push China toward substitutes; Bob McNally recalled the 2019 Abqaiq attack; and Saudi Arabia shut some units at Ras Tanura after a drone strike. Tom Kloza said wholesale gasoline futures could jump "25 cents" immediately, with retail gasoline rising "5 to 10 cents per day" and potentially surpassing "$3.25 per gallon" after the national average had fallen to "$3 a gallon." Futures on the S&P 500 and Nasdaq were down more than 1%, and analysts warned oil could hit "$100 a barrel or even higher" if Hormuz was shut; the OPEC+ output hike announced early Sunday was only "206,000 barrels a day."### Iran war sends crude prices soaring as Khamenei son takes charge - AL-Monitor: The Middle Eastʼs leading independent news source since 2012 | 2026-03-01: after Ali Khamenei was slain, the 56-year-old Mojtaba Khamenei was appointed supreme leader and Iranian missiles and drones hit Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, and Israel in the week of March 9, 2026. Crude prices rocketed past "$100 a barrel," their highest since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in 2022, as nearly "20 percent" of the world’s crude transits Hormuz; US President Donald Trump said American warships would escort oil tankers to restart crude and LNG flows, but no attempts had been reported. France’s Emmanuel Macron proposed a "purely defensive" escort mission, though experts warned it would put navy vessels at risk from the nearby Iranian coast, and the G7 finance ministers discussed releasing strategic reserves, with Roland Lescure saying they were "not there yet." Hungary and Croatia imposed fuel caps, Vietnam and the Philippines reported queues, and Marco Rubio accused Iran of "trying to hold the world hostage." Ali Larijani rejected reopening the strait, saying security was unlikely amid "the fires ignited by the United States and Israel." Bahrain, Qatar, and Kuwait declared "force majeure" after strikes on Bahrain’s Al Ma'ameer oil facility caused a fire, at least one Israeli was killed by shrapnel