In c245dfbfe565, "Exclusive: Top European spies sceptical US will clinch Ukraine peace deal this year" published "2026-02-19" reported that five anonymous heads of European intelligence agencies were pessimistic and sceptical that a peace agreement ending Russia's war in Ukraine could be reached within 2026, saying Russia did not want to end the war quickly; Donald Trump had said the U.S.-brokered talks had brought the prospect of a deal "reasonably close," while the White House and Ukraine were aiming to clinch a deal by June, ahead of November 2026 U.S. congressional mid-term elections. The central sticking point in the third round of U.S.-mediated talks was Russia's demand that Kyiv withdraw forces from the remaining 20% of the eastern Donetsk region it does not control. Zelenskiy posted on X on Thursday that he did not need "historical shit" to end the war and said talk of historical roots was a delay tactic; he insisted Ukraine should have an active role. The U.S. team was led by Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner, neither trained diplomats nor specialists on Russia or Ukraine. Two European officials said Moscow was trying to split the diplomacy into two tracks, one on the war and one on bilateral deals including sanctions relief; Zelenskiy said his intelligence services had heard negotiators discussing bilateral cooperation deals worth as much as $12 trillion, while Kirill Dmitriev claimed on X that the portfolio of potential projects was over $14 trillion. A European spy chief said the offer was aimed at Donald Trump and Russian oligarchs hurt by sanctions. Another chief said Russia's goals included removing Volodymyr Zelenskiy and turning Ukraine into a "neutral" buffer to the West; a third said Russia could be territorially satisfied if it got the rest of Donetsk, but then would make further demands, calling the idea that ceding Donetsk would quickly end the war "misplaced." The same officials said Russia's economy was "not on the verge of collapse," but faced "very high" financial risks in the second half of 2026 because of limited access to capital markets, high borrowing costs, a 15.5% central bank rate, 1% growth last year, and a liquid rainy day fund that had more than halved since the 2022 invasion. Russia's foreign ministry did not immediately respond; Putin said he was ready for peace but on his terms, and Russian officials said Europeans had repeatedly been wrong in their assessments. White House spokeswoman Anna Kelly said Trump and his team had done more than anyone to bring both sides together to stop the killing and deliver a peace deal. ### In df0b0ac8f1da, "What's the status of international oil companies in Venezuela?" published "2026-02-19" said that after the U.S. captured President Nicolas Maduro in January 2026, Washington eased sanctions with general licenses allowing global energy companies to operate oil and gas projects in Venezuela. Chevron exported around 150,000 barrels per day of heavy crude to the U.S. Gulf Coast in November 2025 and about 100,000 barrels per day in December 2025; its four Chevron-PDVSA joint ventures produce 240,000-250,000 barrels per day, and Chevron said output could grow about 50% in the short term. ConocoPhillips has collected $794 million of an arbitration award tied to expropriated assets and says about $12 billion remains; Eni said Venezuela owed it $2.3 billion as of June 2025 after the U.S. revoked all licenses in March 2025 for recovering money through PDVSA cargoes; ExxonMobil said Venezuela owed