Thanks to Trump, Xi Has Time on His Side With Taiwan, 2026-02-25: Ali Wyne, senior research and advocacy advisor for U.S.-China relations at the International Crisis Group, argued that Xi Jinping has time on his side over Taiwan because the PLA is improving incrementally while the U.S. alienates allies with its “America first” foreign policy. The article says Marco Rubio, in his January 2025 confirmation hearing for U.S. Secretary of State, assessed that China would attempt to invade Taiwan before the end of the decade unless something dramatic changed in Asia’s military balance; the House Select Committee on the Chinese Communist Party warned in May 2025 that “the clock is ticking to stop a war in the Indo-Pacific” and the current Congress may be America’s last full chance. It notes Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company announced in March 2025 it would increase U.S. investment by $100 billion, while Donald Trump had declared in July 2024 that Taiwan had stolen the U.S. semiconductor industry and “doesn’t give us anything,” a charge he repeated after the Supreme Court’s tariff ruling. Xi told Trump in South Korea in October 2025 that he cares a lot about world peace and is enthusiastic about settling regional hot spots, and the two reportedly discussed future U.S. arms sales to Taiwan; the Reagan administration’s 1982 “second of the six assurances” is cited as the specific assurance Trump reportedly signaled willingness to negotiate. Taiwan’s legislature is split 51 seats for the Democratic Progressive Party and 60 for the Kuomintang-Taiwan People’s Party opposition out of 113 total seats, with KMT leader Cheng Li-wun, a former DPP member, saying Taiwan cannot depend on a United States that has elected Trump twice and must not become a sacrifice or bargaining chip. Cheng says the Trump administration wants Taiwan to spend 10 percent of GDP on defense, while President Lai Ching-te hopes to reach 5 percent by 2030; Howard Lutnick wants Washington to have onshored 40 percent of Taipei’s semiconductor production by the end of Trump’s second term. Neil Thomas calls Xi a “calculated risk-taker rather than a reckless gambler,” pointing to Hong Kong’s evolution into a financial appendage of China and steady militarization of the South China Sea. The article also says China’s rare-earth leverage can inflict significant pain on the U.S. economy, that the U.S. is deploying missile and unmanned systems to the Philippines and nuclear-powered submarines to Australia, and that a Taiwan move toward declaring independence could trigger invasion; concerns are raised that younger PLA leaders lack combat experience and could produce a ham-fisted response that fuels escalation. ### Fact-checking Trump's State of the Union claims on the economy, immigration and crime | PBS News, 2026-02-25: In Donald Trump’s 2026 State of the Union address on February 24, 2026, he claimed zero illegal aliens had been admitted in the past nine months. Representative Al Green of Texas held up a sign reading “Black people aren’t apes,” referencing a Truth Social video depicting Barack Obama and Michelle Obama as apes, and was escorted out of the House chamber. The fact-check says January 2026 inflation was about 2.4%, below the level when Trump took office in January 2025, versus the Federal Reserve’s 2% goal; gasoline averaged $3.11 a gallon at inauguration and $2.92 the week of February 16, 2026, with Oklahoma lowest on February 24 at $2.37 a gallon and Arkansas, Kansas, and Mississippi at or below $2.50. TrumpRX.gov offered a 93% discount on Cetrotide