Reuters pictures of the day for "March 3, 2026 - March 3, 2026" ran amid the U.S.-Israel conflict with Iran and showed multiple scenes: British businessman Nirav Modi at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in Mumbai, India, where he watched his wife kiss their child while stranded in Dubai because of the conflict; British Chancellor of the Exchequer Rachel Reeves outside 11 Downing Street in London ahead of presenting the Spring Forecast to Parliament; emergency personnel in Petah Tikva, Israel, at the site of an Iranian missile strike; an aircraft preparing to land at RAF Akrotiri in Cyprus after the British sovereign base there was hit by a drone early in the week causing limited damage; Shi'ite Muslim men in Magam town, Indian Kashmir, protesting and chanting anti-U.S. and anti-Israel slogans after the killing of Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei on Saturday, March 1, 2026; Israelis in Tel Aviv, Israel, observing Purim with morning prayers and costumes in underground car parks that functioned as bomb shelters, Purim commemorating the Jews’ salvation from genocide in ancient Persia; protesters near the U.S. Embassy in Manila, Philippines, burning a U.S. flag at a rally against U.S.-Israeli strikes on Iran while police stood guard; U.S. Secretary of State Marco Rubio on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., briefing the media for Congressional leaders on Iran; First Lady Melania Trump presiding over a U.N. Security Council meeting at U.N. headquarters in New York City; the aftermath in Tehran, Iran, of a strike on a police station; graves being prepared in Minab, Iran, for victims of an Israeli strike on a school; President Donald Trump in Washington, D.C., awarding the Medal of Honor to retired U.S. Army Command Sergeant Major Terry Richardson; a woman dressed as a robot showcasing ZTE’s Nubia NEO 5 GT gaming smartphone at Mobile World Congress (MWC26) in Barcelona, Spain; Hindu devotees on the outskirts of Ahmedabad, India, taking part in Holika Dahan bonfire rituals for Holi; a portrait of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei displayed at a memorial ceremony in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, for him and other Iranians killed in Israeli and U.S. strikes; Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth briefing at the Pentagon in Washington, D.C.; a soldier of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army standing guard in Beijing ahead of the annual meeting of the National People’s Congress (NPC). ### Reuters, "Israeli military says Iranian missiles hit central Israel", March 3, 2026, reported that Israel’s military said Iranian missiles struck the Tel Aviv area in central Israel, with search and rescue forces and numerous emergency teams operating at impact sites, the circumstances under review, and Israel’s ambulance service treating three people for light injuries; Israeli police said there were several impact areas involving munition fragments within the Tel Aviv district. The report was by Steven Scheer and edited by Ros Russell, under Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. ### Reuters, "Standard Chartered raises 2026 Brent forecasts following Middle East turmoil", March 3, 2026, said Standard Chartered lifted its 2026 Brent crude average forecast to $70 per barrel from $63.50, raised first-quarter 2026 to $74 from $62 and second-quarter 2026 to $67 from $63, as Brent futures rose about 6% to $82.38 a barrel at 1749 GMT amid fears the widening U.S.-Israel war against Iran would disrupt oil and gas shipments. The bank said Iran’s retaliation against attacks by Israel and the U.S. included strikes on energy infrastructure