Google has officially acquired Israeli cybersecurity firm Wiz for $32 billion in cash, a full year after the companies announced the deal. This marks Google’s biggest acquisition in its history.

Wiz provides a security platform that protects major cloud environments by preventing and responding to cybersecurity threats. While the company will join Google Cloud, it will maintain its brand and commitment to securing customers across all cloud environments, the company said.

The deal comes after Wiz crossed $1 billion in ARR in 2025, according to a source familiar with the matter.

“This acquisition is an investment by Google Cloud to improve cloud security and enable organizations to build fast and securely across any cloud or AI platform,” reads a statement from Google.

As large organizations increasingly work across different clouds — including Google Cloud, AWS, Azure, and Oracle Cloud — having Wiz onside is a clear move by Google to win more enterprise clients with a multi-cloud security platform.

Together, the two companies will work on delivering a “unified security platform” to help organizations deal with threats faster — an essential task as the rise of vibe coding has resulted in an increase in security vulnerabilities and prompt-based attacks become more commonplace. Wiz has leaned into its own use of AI to improve threat detection and investigation at every layer of a cloud’s environment, from code and infrastructure to runtime.

Google initially approached Wiz in 2024 with an offer to buy the startup for $23 billion. Wiz walked away from that offer. Its CEO Assaf Rappaport said, at the time, that he felt the business could grow to be a lot bigger than that.

Google and Wiz revived acquisition talks in the first few months of 2025, and Google announced it was buying Wiz for $32 billion in March 2025.

The deal comes after it received approval from U.S. and European Union regulators in November 2025 and February 2026, respectively, following antitrust probes.

This story has been updated with more information about the deal and Wiz’s 2025 financials.