James Talarico defeated Rep. Jasmine Crockett in the closely watched Democratic primary for Senate in Texas, according to Decision Desk HQ.

The rising star now presents Democrats’ best hope of winning in the red state, where Democrats haven’t won statewide in decades.

“Tonight our campaign is shocking the nation. We are still waiting for an official call, but we are confident in the movement we’ve built together,” the state lawmaker told supporters after midnight at a campaign event. “Every, every vote must be counted. Every voice must be heard.”

DDHQ called the race hours later. As of Wednesday morning, Talarico was leading with 53 percent to Crockett’s 46 percent, with 90 percent reported.

Talarico issued a short statement after the race was called around 3 a.m. EST: “We’re about to take back Texas.”

Crockett conceded later Wednesday morning, calling for Democratic unity in the race.

“This morning I called James and congratulated him on becoming the Senate nominee. Texas is primed to turn blue and we must remain united because this is bigger than any one person,” she said in a statement. “With the primary behind us, Democrats must rally around our nominees and win. I’m committed to doing my part and will continue working to elect democrats up and down the ballot.”

Some top Democrats congratulated Talarico even before the race was official.

“Senator Talarico has a nice ring to it. And we’re all-in to make it a reality,” Sen. Adam Schiff(D-Calif.) said on the social platform X.

“James is a good man and he’ll be a great Senator. Texas, let’s do this,” said Sen. Chris Coons(D-Del.).

After the call, the Democrats’ Senate campaign arm hailed Talarico as “a fighter for Texans.”

“As an eighth-generation Texan, former middle school teacher, and Presbyterian seminarian, James will be a fighter for Texans from all walks of life and of all political stripes. In November, Texans will elect a champion for working people: James Talarico,” Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee (DSCC) Chair Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand said in a joint statement.

Controversy surrounding a CBS “Late Show” segment appeared to give Talarico, a Presbyterian seminarian and former public school teacher, a surge of momentum in the weeks ahead of the primary.

Crockett, a popular congresswoman known for her viral moments in the House, entered Tuesday’s contest with higher name ID than her rival, and handful of polls ahead of the race showed her in the lead.

But Talarico pulled through with a majority of support on Tuesday to avoid a runoff.

Across the aisle, Sen. John Cornyn(R-Texas) and Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton(R) are heading to a May 26 runoff, according to DDHQ, after neither candidate reached the 50 percent mark.

Republicans’ Senate campaign arm heavily pushed for Cornyn ahead of the race, and cited internal polling in a memo last month that showed the incumbent beating Talarico by 3 points, with Paxton losing to Talarico by 1 point.

Flipping the seat remains a long shot for Democrats, but party operatives have likened this cycle to 2018, when Democrat Beto O’Rourke came within just a couple points of ousting Sen. Ted Cruz(R).

Cornyn made the same comparison last month, warning that a Democratic win could be “the first crack in the red wall.”

“He’s pretty slick and — with media and obviously drawing crowds — he’s offering change,” Cornyn said of the state lawmaker, though he argued that Talarico’s approach “is not the sort of talk, as you know, that’s going to attract mainstream Texans in November.”

The Texas race has already set the record as the most expensive Senate primary in U.S. history, and even more is expected to pour in as Republicans defend a seat long seen as safe.

Updated at 9:05 a.m. EST