{
  "type": "A",
  "rationale": "The update involves a specific named entity (Gholam-Hossein Mohseni-Eje’i) replacing another named entity (the Head of Judiciary, referring to the role previously held by Mohseni-Eje’i himself before the title change, or more accurately, the role of 'Head of Judiciary' is being swapped into the role of 'member of Iran's interim leadership council'. However, looking closely at the probe: entity_before is 'Head of Judiciary' (a role/title, not a named person) and entity_after is 'Gholam-Hossein Mohseni-Eje’i' (a named person). Wait, the prompt says 'entity_before: Head of Judiciary' and 'entity_after: Gholam-Hossein Mohseni-Eje’i'. This looks like a role-to-person mapping or a specific role swap. Let's re-read the TYPE-A definition: 'A specific NAMED entity... replaces another NAMED entity... Both entity_before AND entity_after are proper-noun named entities'. Here, 'Head of Judiciary' is a role, not a named entity. 'Gholam-Hossein Mohseni-Eje’i' is a named entity. This fits TYPE-B? No, TYPE-B is 'STATE / VALUE / CONDITION flip'. This is an appointment. Let's look at the probe again. 'Is Gholam-Hossein Mohseni-Eje’i currently serving as a member of Iran's interim leadership council...'. The 'entity_before' in the probe is 'Head of Judiciary'. This implies the question is about the person who *was* Head of Judiciary (Mohseni-Eje’i) now serving in the new role. But the probe defines entity_before as 'Head of Judiciary'. This is ambiguous. Let's look at the article. Mohseni-Eje’i *is* the Head of Judiciary. He is now *also* on the interim council. The probe asks if he is serving. The answer changes from No to Yes. The 'entity_before' listed in the probe is 'Head of Judiciary'. This is likely a mistake in the probe's labeling if it intends to be a swap between two people. However, if we treat 'Head of Judiciary' as the 'old entity' (the role he held) and 'Gholam-Hossein Mohseni-Eje’i' as the 'new entity' (the person), it doesn't fit the strict 'Named Entity replaces Named Entity' for TYPE-A because 'Head of Judiciary' is not a named entity. BUT, often in these datasets, 'entity_before' might refer to the *person* who held the previous role, but here it explicitly says 'Head of Judiciary'. Let's look at the 'fact_tested': 'The appointment of the head of the judiciary to the interim council'. This is a role assignment. Is it a swap? No, it's an addition. But the probe implies a change in status for the entity 'Gholam-Hossein Mohseni-Eje’i'. Let's reconsider the TYPE-A definition: 'Both entity_before AND entity_after are proper-noun named entities'. 'Head of Judiciary' is NOT a proper-noun named entity. 'Gholam-Hossein Mohseni-Eje’i' IS. Therefore, strictly speaking, this is NOT TYPE-A. Is it TYPE-B? 'STATE / VALUE / CONDITION flip'. The condition of 'being a member of the interim leadership council' flipped from No to Yes for Mohseni-Eje’i. The 'entity_before' in the probe is weirdly labeled as 'Head of Judiciary'. If we assume the probe meant 'Mohseni-Eje’i (as Head of Judiciary)' vs 'Mohseni-Eje’i (as Council Member)', it's the same person. That's not a swap. Let's look at the article again. 'members of an interim leadership council include... head of the Iranian judiciary Gholam-Hossein Mohseni-Eje’i'. The probe asks if he is serving. Before the update (death of Khamenei), he was NOT on the council. After, he IS. The 'entity_before' in the probe is 'Head of Judiciary'. This might be a distractor or a specific role-based entity. If I must choose, and 'Head of Judiciary' is not a named entity, it fails TYPE-A. However, in many TU tests, if the 'entity_before' is a role that is effectively a proxy for the person, and the 'entity_after' is the person, it's messy. Let's look at the 'fact_tested': 'The appointment of the head of the judiciary to the interim council'. This is a change in the composition of the council. The 'entity' changing is the council's membership. The 'value' changing is the membership status. This feels like TYPE-B: 'Active Member -> Inactive Member' or similar. But the probe asks about a specific person. Let's look at the 'entity_before' again. If 'Head of Judiciary' is treated as the 'old entity' (the role he held) and 'Gholam-Hossein Mohseni-Eje’i' is the 'new entity' (the person), it's not a swap. Wait, maybe the 'entity_before' is meant to be the *previous* head of judiciary? No, Mohseni-Eje’i is the current one. Let's assume the probe has a typo and 'entity_before' should be 'Ali Khamenei' (Supreme Leader) and 'entity_after' is 'Interim Council'? No, the question is about Mohseni-Eje’i. Let's look at the structure of the question: 'Is Gholam-Hossein Mohseni-Eje’i currently serving as a member of Iran's interim leadership council'. The 'entity' in question is Mohseni-Eje’i. The 'role' is 'member of Iran's interim leadership council'. The 'state' flipped from No to Yes. This is a STATE flip for the entity Mohseni-Eje’i. The 'entity_before' in the probe 'Head of Judiciary' is likely the *context* or *previous role* of the entity, not the entity itself. If the entity is Mohseni-Eje’i, and the state is 'member of interim council', then it is TYPE-B. The 'entity_before' field in the probe might be misleadingly labeled as the 'old entity' when it's actually the 'old role' of the same entity. Given the strict definition of TYPE-A requiring TWO NAMED entities, and 'Head of Judiciary' is not a named entity, this must be TYPE-B. The 'subject' is 'Gholam-Hossein Mohseni-Eje’i'. The 'state' is 'member of Iran's interim leadership council'. The flip is 'Not a member' -> 'Member'.

  "questions": [
    {
      "axis": "T1",
      "q": "As of 2026-03-01, is Gholam-Hossein Mohseni-Eje’i a member of Iran's interim leadership council?",
      "a": "Yes"
    },
    {
      "axis": "T2",
      "q": "As of 2026-03-01, is Gholam-Hossein Mohseni-Eje’i not a member of Iran's interim leadership council?",
      "a": "No"
    }
  ]
}