A new poll by Israel's Channel 12 News poll published Thursday evening predicted that if elections were held today, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's Likud party would receive 26 Knesset seats – exactly what it received in the previous poll conducted by the channel, two days before the outbreak of the war with Iran.

According to the poll, the party of former Prime Minister Naftali Bennett and the Yashar party led by former IDF Chief of Staff Gadi Eisenkot also received the same number of Knesset seats as in the previous poll. The Democrats Party led by Yair Golan gains one Knesset seat, while Yesh Atid led by Yair Lapid and Otzma Yehudit led by National Security Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir each lose one Knesset seat.

Channel 12 Knesset poll

Likud

26

Bennett 2026

21

The Democrats

12

Yashar

11

Shas

9

Yisrael Beiteinu

9

Otzma Yehudit

9

United Torah Judaism

7

Yesh Atid

6

Hadash-Ta'al

5

United Arab List

5

Religious Zionism

0

The Reservists

0

Kahol Lavan

0

Channel 12 News

The poll examined a scenario in which the Arab parties Hadash-Ta'al and United Arab List run separately, not on a joint list. According to the poll, Religious Zionism led by Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich, Blue and White led by former Chief of Staff Benny Gantz, the Reservists party led by Yoaz Hendel, and Balad – do not pass the electoral threshold.

The poll again predicts that neither bloc – neither Netanyahu's supporters nor his opponents – will be able to form a government without the support of the Arab parties. However, the opposition bloc gains one Knesset seat. With 21 Knesset seats for Bennett, 12 for the Democrats, an additional 11 for Eisenkot, nine for the Yisrael Beiteinu party led by Avigdor Lieberman, and six for Lapid's Yesh Atid – Netanyahu's opponents' bloc receives only 59 Knesset seats.

In contrast, the coalition parties' bloc receives only 51 Knesset seats – with 26 Knesset seats for Likud, nine for Otzma Yehudit, nine for Shas, and seven for United Torah Judaism.

Another question posed to poll respondents asked them to rate the performance of the security and political leadership during the war on a scale of 1 to 10. Chief of Staff Eyal Zamir received the highest score with an average of 7.4. Mossad Director Dedi Barnea scored 7.2, Netanyahu 5.6, Defense Minister Israel Katz 5 and Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich only 3.8. The poll was conducted by the "Midgam" Institute, headed by Mano Geva, in cooperation with iPanel.