After major restructuring, Ubisoft CEO Yves Guillemot says multiple Far Cry and Assassin's Creed games are in development: 'We have a solid...'

Ubisoft has finally confirmed that new Far Cry and Assassin’s Creed games are in development. Following a recent restructuring that reorganised Ubisoft into five “creative houses,” the company’s CEO and co-founder, Yves Guillemot, has confirmed that multiple titles from Ubisoft’s key franchises are currently in development. Speaking to Variety, Guillemot said the updated structure, which includes the Tencent-backed subsidiary Vantage Studios, is aimed at supporting ongoing development across major brands.Responding to questions on whether the new company model could speed up work on flagship franchises, Guillemot said, “We have a solid pipeline underway across Vantage Studios. Under the Assassin's Creed brand, several titles are in development, spanning both single-player and multiplayer experiences, with the ambition to further grow a community that exceeded 30 million players last year.”He also confirmed continued work on the Far Cry franchise, adding, “On Far Cry, anticipation is high, and we currently have two very promising projects in development.”

## What to expect from the next Far Cry and Assassin’s Creed titles

Previous rumours claimed that Ubisoft was working on two new Far Cry titles, and the company’s latest comments now serve as confirmation. Earlier reports suggested that one project, codenamed Project Blackbird, is expected to be the next mainline Far Cry entry, featuring a “non-linear” story centred on the kidnapping of the protagonist’s family. The narrative is said to unfold over 72 in-game hours, equivalent to roughly 24 hours in real time.

The second reported project is a standalone multiplayer title known as Project Maverick. Sources in 2023 claimed Maverick is an extraction-based shooter set in “the Alaskan wilderness”. They could include “mechanics such as permadeath, a backpack system, contracts, and more,” with the latter potentially referring to features like lootable chests and extraction zones.For Assassin’s Creed, several upcoming projects are already known, including Project Hexe and a remake of Black Flag. However, a report from Insider Gaming said Ubisoft cancelled two planned Assassin’s Creed titles as part of its recent restructuring, including one reportedly titled Assassin’s Creed Singularity. According to the publication’s sources, Singularity was planned as a virtual trading card game incorporating Web3 and blockchain elements for PC and mobile platforms.Elsewhere, Ubisoft is also developing a Far Cry anthology series with It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia’s Rob McElhenney and Alien Earth creator Noah Hawley. Alongside a producer role, Mac, who also portrayed Ian Grimm in Mythic Quest, is expected to star in the series, although details about his character have not been disclosed.Separately, Ubisoft confirmed layoffs affecting 40 developers at the studio working on the Splinter Cell remake while stating that development on the game is continuing.