China urges immediate ceasefire in Iran conflict | The Straits Times

myST+

Menu

# China urges immediate ceasefire after US, Israel strike Iran

Sign up now: Get insights on Asia's fast-moving developments

China's permanent representative to the United Nations Fu Cong (centre) during a UN Security Council meeting in New York, US, on Feb 28

Bloomberg

Summary

Summary

- Following regional tensions, Cathay Group suspended all passenger and freighter flights in the Middle East, re-routing others to avoid affected areas.
- US-Israeli strikes on Iran killed Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei on February 28. China's embassy advised citizens in Israel to evacuate.
- China condemned US-Israeli strikes on Iran, calling for an immediate ceasefire and dialogue. Its UN envoy stated civilian protection is a "red line" (BBC).

AI generated

Published Mar 01, 2026, 11:31 AM

Updated Mar 01, 2026, 12:47 PM

Follow our live coverage here.

SHANGHAI - China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs has expressed concern over

US-Israeli strikes against Iran and called for an immediate ceasefire, urging all sides to avoid escalation and to resume dialogue and negotiation.

In a statement on Feb 28, the ministry said Iran’s sovereignty, security and territorial integrity should be respected.

During an

emergency session of the United Nations Security Council on Feb 28, China’s envoy Fu Cong said the country was deeply concerned by strikes on Iran by the US and Israel, expressing concern about reports of civilian casualties.

“At all times, the red line for protecting civilians in armed conflict must not be crossed, and the indiscriminate use of force is unacceptable,” the BBC quoted him as saying, calling on all parties to fulfil their obligations under international law and humanitarian law.

China is ready to work with the international community to unite efforts to promote peace and stability in the Middle East as soon as possible, he added.

On March 1, China’s embassy in Israel issued a notice advising Chinese citizens in Israel to evacuate to safer areas within the country as soon as possible or to leave for Egypt via the Taba border crossing.

The United States and Israel launched an attack on Iran on Feb 28, targeting its military capability. Iran’s Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei was killed in the operation, state media reported.

Separately, Hong Kong-based airline operator Cathay Group on Feb 28 suspended operations in the Middle East, citing regional tension following the strikes.

The suspension affects passenger flights to and from Dubai and Riyadh, as well as freighter services operating through Al Maktoum International Airport in Dubai, Cathay, the parent of Cathay Pacific Airways, said in a statement.

It said it is re-routing flights that typically pass over the affected area. REUTERS

###### More on this topic

##### Iran attack a major triumph for Trump, strengthening his hand ahead of China visit

##### Live: What next after Iran supreme leader Khamenei’s demise

###### See more on

China

Iran

Wars and conflicts

Diplomacy

Airlines

Back to top

E-paper

Newsletters

Podcasts

RSS Feed

About Us

Terms & Conditions

Privacy Policy

Need help? Reach us here.

Advertise with us

Download the app

Get unlimited access to exclusive stories and incisive insights from the ST newsroom

Subscribe

MDDI (P) 046/10/2025. Published by SPH Media Limited, Co. Regn. No.202120748H. Copyright © 2026 SPH Media Limited. All rights reserved.