BP locks out union workers at its Midwest oil refinery | Reuters

NEW YORK, March 17 (Reuters) - BP (BP.L), opens new tab will block around 800 workers from its 440,000 barrel-per-day Whiting, Indiana, refinery starting ​March 19, the British oil major said on Tuesday, as months of contract ‌negotiations yielded little results.

The labor dispute at Whiting, the largest refinery in the Midwest, came at a time of high gasoline and diesel prices as the Middle East war upends global energy supplies. Any operational ​disruptions could exacerbate an already tight fuel market, sending prices even higher.

The United ​Steelworkers (USW) union represents about 800 workers at the Whiting refinery that produces key ⁠transportation fuels including gasoline, diesel fuel and jet fuel.

BP on Tuesday issued a lockout notice ​after the United Steelworkers-represented workers rejected its "last, best and final" offer. It told maintenance workers ​at the Whiting plant to not report for work after Tuesday, and other union-represented workers to work through March 18.

BP said the decision to impose a lockout followed months of negotiations during which the union ​twice rejected key proposals without addressing BP's primary concerns. It noted it would continue bargaining ​in good faith, but lifting the lockout would require the union's acceptance of its latest proposal.

Since the ‌previous ⁠three-year collective bargaining agreement expired on January 31, the company said it has been operating amid "labor uncertainty," including the possibility of a strike with as little as 24 hours' notice, and regaining operational control was vital to ensure a safe and orderly transfer of refinery management.

Last ​week, BP presented a revised ​contract offer after ⁠union members overwhelmingly rejected what the company its final proposal.

"They continue to demand that we cut more than 100 jobs, accept pay cuts ​to nearly all positions and give up our bargaining rights. That’s ​just unacceptable," ⁠said Eric Schultz, president of USW Local 7-1, in an emailed statement. "We are prepared to keep fighting for a fair agreement that protects local jobs, protects wages and protects the rights of ⁠our ​members."

The union had said BP proposed workplace changes, including ​cutting more than 200 union jobs in operations, maintenance and environmental safety as well as stripping away some workplace ​protections.

Reporting by Anmol Choubey and Nicole Jao; Editing by Chris Reese, Christopher Cushing and Thomas Derpinghaus