Meet Balendra Shah: the rapper-turned-mayor running to be Nepal’s next PM

Rapper, engineer and former mayor Balendra Shah — popularly known as Balen — has carved a unique space in Nepal's public life.

He first gained public prominence not through politics, but through Nepal's underground hip‑hop ('Nephop') scene. He made a name for himself in in the early 2010s in battle rap performances with sharp lyrics that took aim at corruption, inequality and political stagnation.

Those themes gained popularity in a country where an estimated 20 per cent of the population lives below the national poverty line.

Now the 35-year-old is taking those themes to the people via the ballot box as he seeks to become the country's next prime minister in the March 5 election. It is Nepal's first general election since the Gen Z-led uprising that swept the nation last September.

A hopeful homecoming

Sanil Karmacharya, a project coordinator based in Melbourne, saw the massive demonstrations from overseas and was inspired to travel home to Nepal to ensure he could participate in the election.

He's excited to see a candidate like Balen break the traditional political mould and inspire a younger generation.

"He's a symbol of a generational shift in politics," Mr Karmacharya said.

The 38-year-old has followed Shah's career since his hip-hop days and said his socially conscious message has not changed much since entering politics.

"His rap is different from other rappers," he said. "We can see some kind of fire in him from a very young age."

Between public holidays, the Holi festival and election campaigns, he said it's easy to get caught up in the festive atmosphere in Kathmandu.

"People are in holiday mode and they're meeting with their friends and relatives, and everyone is so involved," he said. "Everyone is just enjoying the fever of election."

He said he knew many others who had returned from abroad just to vote.

"Throughout Nepal, there's a very big hope, in terms of a new power rising."

A generational shift

Shah was born in Mahottari District in Madhesh Province, where his family has roots. He grew up in Kathmandu, where he trained as a civil engineer before completing a master's degree in structural engineering in India.

He formally entered politics in 2022, successfully leveraging his popularity as a rapper to run for mayor of Kathmandu as an independent candidate.

His campaign, built around the slogan "time for change", drew strong support from younger voters and from those disillusioned with traditional party politics.

After claiming victory by a margin of more than 61,000 votes, to the upset of Nepal's political establishment, Shah became the first independent candidate to lead the nation's capital.

When a social media ban triggered widespread protests led by young Nepalis in September 2025, the former rapper was a prominent supporter of the movement, echoing its frustrations and amplifying demonstrators' demands on social media.

Social media stumble

But Shah's time in office was not without criticism.

Human Rights Watch (HRW) raised concerns over heavy-handed attempts to evict landless squatters and remove beggars from the streets of Kathmandu.

A campaign against the city's street vendors was also criticised, with HRW saying authorities were using disproportionate force to "mistreat the urban poor".

A 2023 social media post which allegedly threatened to set fire to Singha Durbar, Nepal's federal administrative complex, also sparked backlash.

When the building was actually set ablaze two years later during the Gen Z protests, some questioned whether Balen's rhetoric had been a contributing factor.

Others accused him of failing to adequately protect both Kathmandu's infrastructure and people amid the protests, which at times turned violent.

In January 2026, Shah resigned as mayor to run in the general election, formally joining the Rastriya Swatantra Party (RSP) and allying with its president, Rabi Lamichhane, a former journalist and television presenter who serves as Nepal's Deputy Prime Minister.

Standing next to former deputy prime minister Rabi Lamichhane at a rally in Dhangadi last month, Shah talked up the party's main goals:

"Our agenda is that the poor people who have no money in their pockets should get a full education. The poor people with empty pockets should get access to the health facilities.''

Shah is now challenging one of the country's most established political figures: former Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli, who has held the office four times since 2015 and was removed from power following the protests last year.

And he's contesting in Oli's own home district of Jhapa‑5, in eastern Nepal, setting up one of the most closely watched races in the country.

Campaign gains momentum

Despite avoiding traditional media interviews, Shah's campaign has gained substantial momentum online.

His active use of social media has helped him build a robust following among young Nepalese voters, with 3.5 million followers on Facebook, 1 million on Instagram, 400,000 on X and nearly 1 million YouTube subscribers.

Shah's personal image has also influenced popular culture, with his signature dark glasses becoming a hot fashion accessory sold out of Kathmandu shops.

His campaigning style is just as unconventional, with Reuters reporting Shah often prefers to drive himself, pulling over spontaneously and stepping out of the car to greet people along the way.

And his ability to address people in different languages has been a distinct advantage, particularly to connect with Maithili-speaking voters in Madhesh province — Nepal's most densely populated region and a key strategic battleground in this election.

"Campaigning is easy," Shah told Reuters during a fleeting conversation.

"It was more challenging when I ran for mayor because I was alone and I did everything on my own."

"Now, I have a party and a team supporting me throughout," he said.

From the stages of Nepal's underground hip‑hop scene to the helm of Kathmandu city government, Shah has built a political profile unlike any other.

Nepal's big challenges

It will take more than popularity to create lasting change in the country.

Mr Karmacharya is clear about the outcome he wants to see from this election in order for Nepal to progress.

"The main thing is a stable government," he said. "Zero tolerance on corruption. And the last one is good governance."

"That's why all these people from overseas are coming [back] to cast their vote, to show their power and get some change."

Whether a rapper-turned-mayor can unseat a long‑established national leader is a question that millions of Nepali voters will soon answer.