U.S., Israel Begin 'Major Combat Operations' in Iran as Trump Calls for Regime Change

A plume of smoke rises in a blue sky behind a cityscape. A plume of smoke rises following an explosion in Tehran on Feb. 28. AFP via Getty Images

February 28, 2026, 6:34 AM

The U.S. military has begun “major combat operations in Iran,” U.S. President Donald Trump announced in a video posted to Truth Social early Saturday morning.

“Our objective is to defend the American people by eliminating imminent threats from the Iranian regime,” Trump said of the campaign, which the U.S. military has named Operation Epic Fury.

In the eight-minute video, Trump listed a litany of historical grievances against Iran, including the 1979 hostage crisis, the 1983 bombing of the U.S. Marine barracks in Lebanon by the Iranian proxy group Hezbollah, attacks by other proxy groups on U.S. forces in the Middle East, and the Hamas-led attack on Israel on Oct. 7, 2023. “It’s been mass terror. And we’re not going to put up with it any longer,” Trump said.

He also cited the country’s nuclear program, which has been the focus of intense negotiations in recent weeks. “They’ve rejected every opportunity to renounce their nuclear ambitions, and we can’t take it anymore,” Trump said. He did not mention that Iran in 2015 signed a comprehensive agreement with the United States and several other world powers that put strict, verifiable limits on its nuclear program or that the country was in compliance with the deal when Trump unilaterally withdrew the United States from it in 2018.

“For these reasons, the United States military is undertaking a massive and ongoing operation to prevent this very wicked, radical dictatorship from threatening America and our core national security interests. We are going to destroy their missiles and raze their missile industry to the ground,” Trump said. “We are going to annihilate their navy. We are going to ensure that the region’s terrorist proxies can no longer destabilize the region and the world. … And we will ensure that Iran does not obtain a nuclear weapon.”

Trump also called on the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) and Iran’s armed forces and police to “lay down your weapons and have complete immunity or, in the alternative, face certain death.”

And he exhorted the Iranian people to stay safe and sheltered during the U.S. operation—but to rise up against the regime once the U.S. operation had ended: “To the great, proud people of Iran, I say to you tonight that the hour of your freedom is at hand. … When we are finished, take over your government. It will be yours to take.”

“In a brief phone call with The Washington Post just after 4 a.m. Saturday, President Donald Trump said his main concern is ‘freedom’ for the Iranian people, and that the U.S. is working to make Iran a place that’s ‘safe,’” the Post reported.

“All I want is freedom for the people,” Trump told the Post when asked about what he hoped his legacy would be as a result of the operation. “I want a safe nation, and that’s what we’re going to have.”

Israel also launched what it called “a pre-emptive attack against Iran to remove threats to the State of Israel,” Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz said on Saturday. An Israeli defense official told Reuters that the operation had been planned for months in coordination with Washington and that the launch date was decided weeks ago.

An Israeli airstrike killed nearly 60 students at a girls’ school in the southern city of Minab, according to Iran’s state-run news agency, with dozens more injured and buried under the rubble. Foreign Policy has not been able to independently verify the report.

Iran has responded with ballistic missile barrages against Israel, according to the Israel Defense Forces.

Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said on Saturday that the country would target all U.S. bases in the region. “Our Powerful Armed Forces are prepared for this day and will teach the aggressors the lesson they deserve,” he wrote in a post on X later in the day, along with a screenshot of a 2012 post from Trump that claimed that then-U.S. President Barack Obama would launch a strike on Iran in a “desperate” response to low poll numbers.

Iran’s semi-official Fars news agency said U.S. bases in Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, and Bahrain were being attacked. Explosions have been reported in Doha, Qatar; Abu Dhabi, UAE; and Iraq.

Kuwait, Jordan, and the United Arab Emirates all said they had intercepted multiple Iranian ballistic missiles targeting their countries, including at Kuwait’s Ali Al-Salem Air Base. The Emirati military said its air defenses had successfully intercepted multiple waves of missiles, adding that debris from the initial attack had resulted in “one civilian death of an Asian nationality” and some “material damage.”

A missile attack struck the U.S. Navy’s 5th Fleet at Naval Support Activity in Bahrain, according to the country’s official communications center. Staffing at the base had been reduced in recent days in case of retaliatory strikes, Fox News had previously reported, citing U.S. officials.

The U.S. president, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth, and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Dan Caine are monitoring the situation from Mar-a-Lago, the president’s resort in Palm Beach, Florida. It is unclear if Trump plans to address the nation again on Saturday.

The U.S. and Israeli strikes are expected to continue for several days, according to multiple reports, with a senior U.S. official telling CNN that the plan is to escalate strikes with a series of potential off-ramps.

Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran’s supreme leader, and other senior Iranian officials were reportedly among those targeted by Saturday’s strikes. Iranian Defense Minister Amir Nasirzadeh and IRGC commander Mohammed Pakpour were reportedly killed in Israeli attacks, but that has not been officially confirmed.

Satellite imagery obtained by the New York Times showed several destroyed buildings in the compound that Khamenei tends to use as his official residence. The Iranian supreme leader’s current whereabouts are unknown. But Araghchi, speaking to NBC News from Tehran around 5:30 p.m. local time (9 a.m. EST), said Khamenei was still alive “as far as I know.”

“We may have lost one or two commanders, but that is not a big problem,” he added.

Araghchi also said pursuing regime change in Iran was “mission impossible.” The top Iranian diplomat said Tehran was targeting U.S. military bases in the region in retaliation but not “Americans in their land.”

As of right now, there is no communication between Iran and the United States, Araghchi said, but he expressed a willingness to resume dialogue in the interest of de-escalation. “This is a war of choice by the United States, and they have to pay for that,” he added. “But as far as we are concerned, we don’t want war.”