Gold, Silver Rate Today Live Updates: Gold and silver prices have been fluctuating in the last few days. After rising to a three-week high, they fell in the session on Tuesday and rose again on Wednesday. Safe haven demand is back in focus as US President Donald Trump threatens more tariffs after the US Supreme Court ruled that his Liberation Day reciprocal tariffs are illegal. Additionally, tensions related to the developing US and Iran situation are also contributing to investors opting for gold again. The ongoing uncertainty on the impact of AI and the rout in technology stocks is adding to the pressure on equities, making investors run for cover in gold. Which way are gold and silver prices headed in the near term? Track TOI’s live coverage of the precious metals, the ongoing trends in the gold and silver prices, and the outlook:

09:05 (IST) Feb 25

Gold Rate Today Live: Surge in gold ETF inflows

“Gold ETF holdings reversed multi-year outflows, with India emerging as a structural growth market. Assets under management in Indian gold ETFs surged to ₹1,279 billion ($14.2 billion), lifting the country’s share of global ETF holdings from 1.9% to 2.5%. Simultaneously, COMEX and LBMA inventories declined 20–40% from 2024 peaks, dislocating the supply demand balance temporarily,” says MOFSL in its quarterly report on precious metals.

09:00 (IST) Feb 25

Gold Rate Today Live: Gold to find support at $5,140?

Gold prices could find support near $5,140 per ounce and may attempt another test of the $5,244 resistance level, Reuters technical analyst Wang Tao said. He noted that the nearest resistance lies at $5,205, and a sustained move above this point could push prices into the $5,221 to $5,244 range.On the geopolitical front, Iran and the United States are scheduled to conduct a third round of nuclear negotiations in Geneva on Thursday, Oman’s Foreign Minister Badr Albusaidi said.In other precious metals, spot silver increased 1% to $88.23 per ounce after touching a more than two-week high on Monday. Spot platinum advanced 2.1% to $2,212.72 per ounce, while palladium rose 1.4% to $1,793.68.

08:58 (IST) Feb 25

Gold Rate Today Live: Fed rate cut expectations

Two officials from the US Federal Reserve indicated that there is little inclination at present to adjust the central bank’s interest rate stance.According to CME’s FedWatch Tool, financial markets are pricing in three interest-rate reductions of 25 basis points each during the course of this year."There’s still ample room for further upside for gold here, especially if all the things driving gold prices higher, such as US fiscal trade, foreign policy, continue to persist," Kyle Rodda, senior market analyst at Capital.com told Reuters.

08:55 (IST) Feb 25

Gold Rate Today Live: Impact of Chinese markets opening

Kyle Rodda, senior market analyst at Capital.com, said the reopening of Chinese markets and heightened policy uncertainty in the United States continue to support demand for safe-haven assets such as gold and, to some degree, silver.The United States started enforcing a temporary 10% universal import tariff on Tuesday, while officials indicated that efforts were under way to raise the rate to 15%. A White House official said the move has added to uncertainty surrounding President Donald Trump’s trade policy after last week’s Supreme Court setback.

08:52 (IST) Feb 25

Gold Rate Today Live: Gold prices rise on safe haven demand

Gold prices moved higher on Wednesday during Asian trading hours as investors turned to the safe-haven asset amid continued uncertainty over US tariff policy following the US Supreme Court’s decision to invalidate several measures introduced by President Donald Trump.Spot gold gained 0.5% to $5,174.76 per ounce as of 0159 GMT. In the previous session, bullion had fallen by more than 1% after traders booked profits when prices touched a three-week high earlier in the day.US gold futures for April delivery also edged higher, rising 0.3% to $5,192.20.

Gold, Silver Rate Today Live Updates: The record rise in both gold and silver prices has taken most by surprise. Demand for gold and silver rises in times of geopolitical turbulence, but the global situation has constantly been on the edge in the last few months, leading to the unprecedented rallies. However, since then gold and silver have both corrected as investors book profits at high levels. The rise in gold prices has in major part been led by the aggressive stocking up of gold reserves by central banks around the world. According to a recent report by Motilal Oswal Financial Services, central banks net-purchased around 1,000 tons for the fourth consecutive year-the most sustained official-sector accumulation since the collapse of Bretton Woods.