Agilent Technologies Inc

Follow

Biocare Medical Llc

Follow

Danaher Corp

Follow

Show more companies

March 9 (Reuters) - Life sciences firm Agilent Technologies (A.N), opens new tab said on Monday that it will acquire ​privately held clinical pathology firm Biocare Medical in an all-cash ‌deal valued at $950 million.

Agilent said Biocare's tissue diagnostic products for cancer and infectious diseases will be integrated into its Life Sciences and Diagnostics Markets unit, expecting the move ​to lift revenue growth and profitability within the first year.

Agilent CEO ​Padraig McDonnell said Biocare brings more than 300 specialized antibodies and ⁠strong new-product capabilities, helping Agilent "better serve a broader base of pathology ​labs" while expanding its U.S. and international customer reach.

The deal fits neatly with ​Agilent's Dako pathology business, which makes antibodies, instruments and software, among other products, said Evercore ISI analyst Vijay Kumar.

Leerink Partners' Puneet Souda said Biocare's staining machines and catalog of ​more than 300 antibodies would strengthen Agilent's capabilities that help pathologists identify ​cancer and infections in tissue slides.

Biocare's portfolio would also help Agilent compete better against ‌products ⁠from Danaher's (DHR.N), opens new tab Leica unit and Roche's (ROG.S), opens new tab Ventana division, Souda added.

The laboratory equipment maker will acquire California-headquartered Biocare from Excellere Partners and GHO Capital Partners, and the deal is expected to close by the fourth quarter of fiscal 2026.

McDonnell ​added that the ​acquisition fits Agilent's ⁠strategy of disciplined M&A, calling Biocare "exactly the kind of asset we target," and said it strengthens the company's position ​in a roughly $10 billion pathology market; "the market segment where ​Biocare Medical ⁠operates is about a quarter of that and is growing at mid-to-high single digits."

Agilent had reported first-quarter results in February that were largely in line with ⁠estimates, ​signaling stable demand for its medical tools ​and other equipment.

Reporting by Sahil Pandey, Bageshri Banerjee and Gursimran Kaur in Bengaluru; additional reporting by ​Kamal Choudhury; Editing by Sherry Jacob-Phillips, Rashmi Aich, Vijay Kishore and Alan Barona

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles., opens new tab

Purchase Licensing Rights