Paramount says US antitrust waiting period on Warner Bros bid has expired | Reuters

Skip to main content

Exclusive news, data and analytics for financial market professionalsLearn more aboutRefinitiv

A city street stop sign is shown next to the Paramount water tower at the Paramount studio lot in Hollywood, Los Angeles, California, U.S., January 13, 2026. REUTERS/Mike Blake/File Photo Purchase Licensing Rights, opens new tab

- Companies

Netflix Inc

Follow

Paramount Skydance Corp

Follow

Warner Bros Discovery Inc

Follow

Feb 20 (Reuters) - Paramount (PSKY.O), opens new tab said on Friday the U.S. antitrust waiting period for its $108.4 billion all-cash bid for Warner Bros Discovery (WBD.O), opens new tab expired on February 19, marking a milestone on the road to a potential deal to acquire the owner of HBO Max.

The company said this "means there is no statutory impediment in the U.S. to closing Paramount's proposed acquisition of WBD," but the expiration of the 10-day waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act does not end the U.S. Department of Justice's review.

Sign up here.

The DOJ can continue investigating the deal, request more information and still sue to block the transaction before it closes.

In 2023, the department sued to block the proposed JetBlue-Sprint merger months after the waiting period had expired.

Paramount, however, does not have a definitive agreement with Warner Bros, which has signed a deal with Netflix that has offered to buy the studios and streaming assets for $27.75 per share, or $82.7 billion.

"Paramount Skydance continues to mislead stockholders and distract from the facts," Netflix chief legal officer, David Hyman, said.

"They have not secured approvals needed to close and they are a long way from doing so."

The Netflix deal will also face intense scrutiny from U.S. and European competition authorities, who must assess whether combining the company's global streaming power with Warner Bros Discovery's century-old studio assets would reduce competition or limit consumer choice.

Reporting by Harshita Mary Varghese in Bengaluru and Dawn Chmielewski in Los Angeles; Editing by Shinjini Ganguli and Alan Barona

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles., opens new tab

Purchase Licensing Rights

## Read Next / Editor's Picks

ago Worldcategory

US judge upholds $243 million verdict against Tesla over fatal Autopilot crash

February 19, 2026Explainer

Explainer: Will Bayer’s proposed $7.25 billion Roundup deal bring legal closure?

ago Litigationcategory

US court revives Regenxbio patent lawsuit over muscular dystrophy treatment

February 19, 2026 Governmentcategory

JPMorgan says Trump's lawsuit improperly named Dimon as defendant

February 19, 2026 Governmentcategory

PepsiCo, Frito-Lay win US court order barring class action in snack pricing lawsuit

February 19, 2026 Litigationcategory

Amazon can be sued over suicides linked to sodium nitrite, court rules

ago Worldcategory

BioNTech sues Moderna for patent infringement over COVID shots

agoANALYSIS

Supreme Court checks Trump's expansive view of executive power

ago Governmentcategory

Toymaker assesses next steps in US Supreme Court tariff refund battle

ago Governmentcategory

Law firms gird for tariff refund fight after Supreme Court ruling

ago Governmentcategory

Court allows Louisiana law requiring Ten Commandments in schools to take effect

ago Businesscategory

Supreme Court tariff ruling clouds Fed's rate path after a year of upheaval

ago Litigationcategory

JetBlue must face $100 million American Airlines lawsuit in Texas, judge rules

ago Governmentcategory

Trump tariff reversal could cut costs for US energy firms but will likely leave broader flows unchanged