Gulf states risk being dragged into a war they do not want

Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Qatar and Oman lobbied Trump against military action, but must now decide whether to press the US to hit Tehran even harder

A yacht sails past a plume of smoke rising from the port of Jebel Ali after a reported Iranian strike in Dubai

Samer Al-Atrush

, Dubai

Monday March 02 2026, 9.15pm, The Times

Qatar’s airforce shot down two Iranian bombers and several missiles on Monday as Gulf states considered how best to avert a damaging wider war in the region.

Qatar announced the destruction of the Sukhoi Su-24 jets and seven Iranian missiles, after an Iranian attack forced the closure of its natural gas plant, helping to push gas prices in Europe up by 50 per cent.

Gulf states under Iranian attack face a difficult choice: pressing President Trump to end the war quickly, or pressing him to double down and hit Iran even harder, possibly with their help. Neither is ideal for an energy-rich region that has been sucked into a war it had hoped to avoid.

What started out on Saturday as Iranian strikes on US bases in the region have now expanded to civilian and energy infrastructure. On Monday, Iranian drones targeted Saudi Arabia’s largest refinery, forcing it to shut down. Another Iranian drone targeted an Amazon data centre in the UAE.

Trump said on Monday that he was surprised by the scale of Iranian attacks on Arab countries, but it was always Iran’s plan. Days before he was killed in an Israeli airstrike, Ayatollah Khamenei boasted that his forces were ready to sink American warships and deliver a resounding “slap” to Trump. In truth, his forces were preparing a very different strategy: inflicting as much pain on the region until it begs Trump to end the war.

“There are two options for the Gulf: one is to pressure the Americans to double down and paralyse [Iran’s] capabilities. The other is … a diplomatic resolution,” Mahdi Ghuloom, a Bahraini analyst and geopolitics junior fellow at the ORF Middle East think tank, said.

“I would suspect [they will go with] the first. Whatever is faster will be the favourable option for the Gulf,” he said.

Workers evacuate the area around Saudi Aramco’s Ras Tanura oil refinery. The complex, on the kingdom’s Gulf coast, houses one of the Middle East’s largest refineries

In the months leading up to Saturday’s attack, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, which had both reached a détente with Iran, had lobbied Trump against war. They were backed by Qatar and Oman, which had attempted to meditate a nuclear deal.

Saudi Arabia has vociferously denied reports that it urged Trump to attack Iran. The kingdom, which above anything else wants stability in the region, had concluded that there was no stopping the momentum to war, and instead tried to shape its outcome.

For the Saudis and the Emiratis the fear was that an Iranian regime that withstood US and Israel’s attacks would emerge emboldened and even more aggressive. Any military operation, they believed, should either kill Khamenei and bring down his regime, or not take place at all.

Trump has said the US took the “last best chance” to hit Iran

They have now all come under attack by Iran, and some are contemplating moving from a defensive posture of intercepting the hundreds of Iranian missiles and drones to waging active war on Iran. But they are held back by doubts over what that could achieve, and what further action Iran might take in response.

There is also the question of whether Iran’s tactic to decentralise decision-making to local military units, as the Iranian foreign minister suggested, meant that the Iranian leadership had not ordered the attacks on energy sites in Saudi Arabia and Qatar.

“Is this a decision by the central leadership or is this a colonel who sent one drone?” said Ali Shihabi, a Saudi analyst close to the royal court, on the refinery attack. “Who’s in charge in Iran? If you’re in charge in Iran, are you busy staying alive or holding [military] conferences?”

Shihabi said a concerted attack, such as the Iranian drone and missile swarm that knocked out half of Saudi oil production in 2019, would trigger a significant Saudi response.

A missile fired from an Iranian vessel during a military exercise

If that happened, he said, “the Crown Prince [of Saudi Arabia] will take out Kharg Island”, referring to the Iranian oil port.

The Gulf states’ defences have largely held up, intercepting most of the Iranian drones and missiles, but a war that drags on could badly endanger their economies, which rely on energy sales, business and tourism.

For now, at least, the attacks have rallied the countries against the Iranian regime. They could escalate by allowing the US to use their airspace and bases for attacks on Iran, and even conduct their own.

“We hope it doesn’t come to it,” Reem Al Hashimy, a UAE state minister, told American media. “But by the same token, we’re not going to sit idly by as we continue to be recipients of such a barrage of attacks that are unlawful and unjustified as well.”