Iran rules out ceasefire talks; US threatens ‘most intense day of strikes’

Residents in Lebanon’s Saida await Israeli strikes amid more displacement

Merz says sees ‘no common plan’ to quickly end Iran war

Trump’s pledge to end America’s foreign wars sparks debate among supporter base

WATCH: A walk down Beirut’s street shows destruction after Israeli bombing

Iran war: What is happening on day 11 of US-Israel attacks?

Hundreds of thousands of Iranians rally in Tehran to show their support for the new supreme leader, Mojtaba Khamenei.

How will soaring oil prices caused by Iran war impact food prices?

Russia the only ‘winner’ of US-Israel war on Iran: EU Council president

Could Trump ‘take over’ the Strait of Hormuz as oil prices rise?

Israel launches new wave of attacks on southern and eastern Lebanon

What is the US endgame in Iran, as the war escalates?

The ‘Fourth Successor’: Iran’s plan for a long war with the US and Israel

War on Iran fuelling Islamophobic social media surge in US: Report

No snow, no ski season: Greenland’s warmest January shuts Nuuk resort

As Israel intensifies Lebanon attacks, Hezbollah disarmament takes backseat

US consumers express dismay over rising gas prices after attack on Iran

Pakistan orders sweeping austerity measures as Iran war triggers oil crisis

Gaza food prices soar as border closures deepen shortages amid Iran war

Woman killed in Bahrain as Gulf states intercept more Iranian missiles

Geopolitical analysis of the imposed war against Iran

It is time for the world to move on without the United States

US-Israel attacks on Iran: Death toll and injuries live tracker

Preliminary figures are 1,255 dead in Iran, at least 13 in Israel, eight US soldiers and 14 killed in Gulf states.

Featured

Where do the 35 million foreigners living in the GCC come from?

More than half of the 62 million people in the six Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries are foreign workers.

How US-Israel war on Iran deepens Gaza crisis

Expanding regional conflict shifts global attention as Gaza faces border closures, inflation and ‘ceasefire’ violations.

Volunteers rebuild Sudan’s oldest psychiatric hospital destroyed by war

Sudanese family returning home from displacement, struggles to help son overcome drug addiction.

Palestinians risk life and limb to fish in Gaza’s Israeli-controlled sea

Gaza’s fishing industry collapses under Israeli blockade, leaving fishermen risking their lives for minimal catches.

The new boss at work may not be human

As companies experiment with AI agents, the technology is beginning to reshape office hierarchies across US and Canada.

Iran rules out ceasefire talks; US threatens ‘most intense day of strikes’

Iran war: What is happening on day 11 of US-Israel attacks?

The ‘Fourth Successor’: Iran’s plan for a long war with the US and Israel

World reacts to appointment of Mojtaba Khamenei as Iran’s supreme leader

Iran war updates: Trump says conflict may be ‘short-term’ as oil fears rise

What is the US endgame in Iran, as the war escalates?

US investigators begin search of Epstein’s former ranch in New Mexico

Where do the 35 million foreigners living in the GCC come from?

Trump says some sanctions to be lifted on oil producers amid Iran war

US-Israel attacks on Iran: Death toll and injuries live tracker