Confirmed, deleted, and then clarified. After Donald Trump's aide claimed in a boastful tone that the American navy had “successfully escorted” an oil tanker through the troubled Strait of Hormuz, the post was quickly deleted. The White House later clarified that the United States had not escorted any oil tanker through the key waterway, which remains at the centre of the ongoing crisis in the Middle East.Energy secretary Chris Wright had written in a now-deleted post on X, “The US Navy successfully escorted an oil tanker through the Strait of Hormuz to ensure oil remains flowing to global markets.”

'Why Capture? More Fun Sinking Them': Trump Mocks Iranian Sailors Killed In Warship Attack

The shift in narrative triggered volatility in global markets, with oil prices dropping sharply after energy secretary Chris Wright’s initial post. Prices later recovered some losses after Wright deleted the post on X just minutes after publishing it.

Meanwhile, the White House moved to correct the claim. “I can confirm that the US Navy has not escorted a tanker or a vessel at this time, though of course that's an option,” White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt told a briefing.Iran’s Revolutionary Guards also rejected the claim, saying no US Navy vessel had “dared” approach the Strait of Hormuz and calling Wright’s statement a “pure falsehood.”An energy department spokesperson told AFP that “a video clip was deleted from Secretary Wright's official X account after it was determined to be incorrectly captioned by department of energy staff.”

According to data compiled by the UK Maritime Trade Organisation (UKMTO), the International Maritime Organization (IMO) and Iranian authorities, at least 10 oil tankers in or near the Strait of Hormuz were struck, targeted or reported attacks between March 1 and March 10.

Fluctuating prices

Nearly one-fifth of global oil production passes through the strait. Tehran has warned that none of it would be exported from the Gulf while the war continues.Since March 2, more than 20 commercial vessels have crossed the strait, according to AFP analysis of shipping tracker Marine Traffic data.Other ships have passed through with their transponders switched off to hide their location, sometimes reappearing on marine trackers only after safely leaving the area.Before the war, an average of 138 ships passed through the Strait of Hormuz each day.US President Donald Trump’s administration has tried to reassure global markets since launching the war, offering reinsurance to shipping companies and the US Navy’s services to escort tankers.Crude prices have swung sharply amid fears of supply disruptions. On Monday, they jumped nearly 30 percent to around $120 per barrel before pulling back.Prices continued to fall after comments by Trump on Monday suggested the war might end soon, even as his defence secretary vowed the next day to carry out the “most intense day of strikes inside Iran.”The conflict has already seen strikes on oil depots in Iran and attacks on energy infrastructure in wealthy Gulf states, long considered safe havens in the volatile Middle East.