USA TODAY - Breaking News and Latest News Today

Can Trump deport migrants coming from dangerous conditions? SCOTUS to weigh in

Family calls war 'uncalled for' after US airman killed: Iran updates

The best (and worst) Oscar moments, from Conan to 'Sinners'

Trump's reveal of congressman's terminal diagnosis causes awkward moment

Democrats refer Kristi Noem to DOJ for investigation into perjury

5 tips to start your March Madness bracket

When is Amazon's Big Spring sale? Get dates + deals here

Featured Videos

For You

Which topics matter most to you? Add your favorites and you’ll see more of these stories in the For You section. View For You

More Top Stories

Michael B. Jordan's big backstage moment and what you…

She endured a parent's worst nightmare. Now, she’s…

Can you get refund for a missed flight while standing in…

Timothée Chalamet's ballet and opera controversy…

President Trump says US could soon reach deal with Cuba

Oklahoma, San Diego State lead March Madness snubs

Leonardo DiCaprio makes rare public appearance with…

USA WBC win over Dominican Republic ends on…

The Oscars got it wrong. 'Sinners' will entertain us for…

Michael B. Jordan spotted at In-N-Out with Oscar as fans…

Costco recalls pre-made meal kit over salmonella risk in…

Drone attack ignites fuel tank fire at Dubai airport

Discover

Introducing USA TODAY Women of the Year 2026 Buc-ee's gets 'F' rating from Better Business Bureau… The real reason sunlight is increasing (it's not…

These wild photos will take you back to spring break in the 1980s

Shopping

How to easily book a multi-city vacation with British… Get the Purdue "Hammer Down" 2026 Big Ten Championship… 10 weird Amazon deals you never knew you needed 👉 2026 March Madness bracket reveal: Get your tickets now

Sports

Team USA turns to rookie to 'finish this thing' in WBC… NBA Power Rankings: Are Lakers contenders? UConn atop women’s basketball coaches poll as March… Who won Justin Fields trade? Grades for Chiefs, Jets in…

Entertainment

Glen Powell gets a Nashville 'bar star' title Kevin O'Leary bet (and lost) money on Timothée Chalamet's… Matt Clark, who starred alongside Clint Eastwood in… Sean Penn pictured in Ukraine after missing Oscars wins

Politics

How many US troops have been injured in the Iran war… Trump Kennedy Center board votes to shut it down for 2… Trump says others should help police Strait of Hormuz… Trump reveals Rep. Neal Dunn's heart illness

Pets

These dog breeds would win Oscars for drama, action and… An intelligent potbelly pig who communicates with buttons What to know about sending your pet on a flight with a… How to safely shelter with your dog in a storm

News in Pictures

See images as US, Israel launch strikes on Iran Nike unveils new USMNT and USWNT kits for 2026 Book-to-movie adaptations coming to your screen this year 👀 See the best celebrity photos from March

Trending Video

An intelligent potbelly pig who communicates with buttons See good Samaritans rescue tiny animals in need Watch Hoot, the police K-9, rescue missing child with… Hair appointment takes wild turn when stylist’s water…

Money

Popeyes locations set to close in Georgia. What you need… Expecting a paper IRS refund? Many are getting delay… Chocolate ladybugs recalled over 'undeclared allergen.'… E. coli outbreak linked to raw cheese. See products.

Real Estate

Find your dream home — start your search today Need an agent who listens? These pros get it. Get a real home value — not just a guess Are the lights on your neighbor's home too bright? Here's…

Wellness

Trump's Chief of Staff Susie Wiles and what to know about… See the moment this baby gets her first hearing aids Watch this baby hear her mom's voice for the first time She’s doing everything she can to seem OK. But her…

Just Curious

Crunches are better for overall health than you may… Why does my stomach hurt? Is asparagus good for you? This may happen if you eat too… What probiotics do for your gut and beyond

Opinion

My country makes me unhappy lately, but we can find joy… Florida's silence after Kirk's death was telling My son has what killed my brothers. FDA is stealing his… This candidate is saying what Gen Z is thinking. Will…

Travel

How to easily book a multi-city vacation with British… 3K+ US flights canceled as storm and TSA delays hit… 6 places Americans can travel without a passport Airline CEOs press Congress to fund Homeland Security…

Investigations

They went to jail for minor crimes. Sepsis was a death… Cash vanished from charity raffles at NHL, NBA games A $2B NHL team seized control of youth hockey. Parents… Top Trump officials' stock sales clustered before tariff…

U.S. News

Coast Guard rescues man off ice on Mackinac Island A look at St. Patrick's Day celebrations, parades, as… St. Patty's Day or St. Paddy's Day? Some say there's a… Power outages spike as severe weather hits across US. See…

USA TODAY 10BEST

Did you know Amazon has a secret outlet? Week's best deals Amazon has a secret household page that gives you a $15… I asked professional cleaners what products actually work… These are the best festivals of 2026, according to readers

Tech

Meta shares jump after Reuters report on plans for 20%… What to know Apple's AirPods Max 2 including release date… 5 Apple devices on sale ahead of Amazon's Big Spring sale… My favorite smart streaming device is under $100 on Amazon

Severe weather, tornado alerts issued for East Coast. See updates Timothée Chalamet roasted at Oscars, loses best actor She’s doing everything she can to seem OK. But her 13-year-old is slowly dying. Drone attack ignites fuel tank fire at Dubai airport Susie Wiles, White House chief of staff, diagnosed with breast cancer Eight burning March Madness hot takes, from upsets to Final Four picks Exclusive: Senator takes aim at Amazon, questions 'Melania' movie deal 6 places Americans can travel without a passport