Germany, France, UK urge US to restart Iran talks after strikes

Following joint U.S.-Israeli strikes on Iran early Saturday, the leaders of Germany, France and the United Kingdom pressed the Trump administration to return to the negotiating table with Tehran.

“France, Germany and the United Kingdom have consistently urged the Iranian regime to end Iran’s nuclear program, curb its ballistic missile program, refrain from its destabilizing activity in the region and our homelands, and to cease the appalling violence and repression against its own people,” the leaders wrote in a statement.

“We did not participate in these strikes, but are in close contact with our international partners including the United States, Israel, and partners in the region,” the nations continued. “We reiterate our commitment to regional stability and to the protection of civilian life.”

Officials from the U.S. and Iran met as recently as Thursday in Geneva to for indirect talks around Tehran’s nuclear program. Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said the latest negotiations were the “most intense so far” in a post online.

Trump, who is seeking a new nuclear deal with the Middle Eastern country, told reporters on Friday that he was “ not thrilled” with the talks thus far. He has for weeks threatened consequences against the regime if an agreement was not reached.

The president announced the “ major combat operation” early Saturday in a video on Truth Social — in which he also called for regime change and later in an interview said he wanted “freedom” for Iranians.

The leaders of Germany, France and the U.K. also spoke out against the Iranian regime’s retaliatory strikes on neighboring countries and U.S. bases in the Persian Gulf.

“We condemn Iranian attacks on countries in the region in the strongest terms,” the leaders wrote. “Iran must refrain from indiscriminate military strikes. We call for a resumption of negotiations and urge the Iranian leadership to seek a negotiated solution. Ultimately, the Iranian people must be allowed to determine their future.”

The leaders have all separately warned about risks of increased violence in the wake of the Saturday morning attack, echoing global calls for deescalation.

French President Emmanuel Macron said the joint operation “carries grave consequences for international peace and security.”

“The ongoing escalation is dangerous for all. It must stop,” Macron posted on soical platform X. “The Iranian regime must understand that it now has no other option but to engage in good faith in negotiations to end its nuclear and ballistic programs, as well as its regional destabilization activities.”

He added, “This is absolutely necessary for the security of all in the Middle East.”

## International

- Cannabis hyperemesis syndrome is on the rise: What symptoms to watch for
- Jeffries: Democrats ‘committed’ to forcing Iran war powers vote in wake of US strikes
- UK, France, Germany urge return to negotiations after US strikes Iran
- Kaine: Trump 'too mentally incapacitated' to understand he set stage for Iran nuclear development
- Marjorie Taylor Greene blasts Trump's Iran strikes