Trump postpones trip to Beijing as Iran war delays China reset | Reuters

Skip to main content

Exclusive news, data and analytics for financial market professionalsLearn more aboutRefinitiv

- Summary

- Beijing visit seen as ill-timed amid US economic struggles
- Trump's Iran policy shifts focus from China to Middle East
- Trip cancellation affects US-China trade talks

WASHINGTON, March 17 (Reuters) - President Donald Trump on Tuesday said ‚Äãhe was postponing a highly anticipated, opens new tab trip to Beijing to meet with Chinese President Xi Jinping as the ‚Äåwar with Iran upends U.S. foreign policy and delays an effort to ease tensions between the world‚Äôs two biggest economies.

"We are resetting the meeting," Trump told reporters in the Oval Office. "We're working with China. They were fine with it."

Sign up here.

Trump had been set to travel to Beijing ‚Äãfrom March 31 to April 2 for the first trip there of his 14-month-old second term. The trip will now ‚Äãtake place in "about five or six weeks," Trump said. The White House did not specify a date.

‚ÄúChina ‚ÅÝand the U.S. remain in communication on President Trump‚Äôs visit to China, including the dates," said a spokesperson for the ‚ÄãChinese embassy in Washington. "I have nothing to add at the moment.‚Äù

The postponed visit heightens uncertainty for markets and diplomacy alike, ‚Äãas the war with Iran has driven oil prices higher, threatened shipping through the Strait of Hormuz and sharpened investor focus on energy security.

The delay will also sideline talks to ease frictions between Washington and Beijing over Taiwan, tariffs, computer chips, illegal drugs, rare earths and agriculture.

Trump‚Äôs ‚Äãcampaign in Iran has unleashed a wave of military and economic consequences and commanded attention from across his administration.

## LAVISH STATE ‚ÄãVISIT AT ODDS WITH U.S. ECONOMIC STRUGGLES

U.S. President Donald Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping talk as they leave after a bilateral meeting at Gimhae International Airport, on the sidelines of the Asia-Pacific Economic...

The image of Trump on a lavish state visit was increasingly seen at odds with a struggling ‚ÄåU.S. economy ‚ÅÝand the return of American service members killed in the Middle East, said a person briefed on planning for the Beijing meetings.

Iran has responded to joint U.S.-Israeli attacks by threatening, opens new tab to fire on vessels moving through the Strait of Hormuz.

Trump's request for assistance from other countries so far has largely been rebuffed. China, which imported around 12 million barrels of oil daily in the first two months of ‚Äã2026, the most in the world, has ‚Äãnot directly responded to ‚ÅÝhis request.

Lin Jian, a Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson, said earlier on Tuesday that it would be "misguided" to describe the trip as being delayed due to a dispute over the strait.

Beijing never ‚Äãofficially announced dates for Trump's visit and normally does not detail Xi's schedule more than a ‚Äãfew days in ‚ÅÝadvance.

Trump last met Xi in October in South Korea. He last traveled to China in 2017.

Preparations for the upcoming meeting included talks this week in Paris between U.S. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent and Chinese Vice Premier He Lifeng.

Those talks focused on potential additional purchases ‚ÅÝof U.S. ‚Äãagricultural goods including poultry, beef and non-soybean row crops. They also discussed ‚Äãincreasing the flow of rare earth minerals largely controlled by China and new approaches to manage trade and investment between the countries, according to people ‚Äãfamiliar with the talks.

Reporting by Trevor Hunnicutt and Steve Holland; editing by Michelle Nichols, Howard Goller, David Ljunggren and Cynthia Osterman