The U.S. and Israel unleashed a major attack on Iran on Saturday in what President Trump said was designed to wipe out the regime's military capabilities and eliminate the threat of Iran creating a nuclear weapon. Iran has responded with missile attacks directed at Israel and its U.S.-allied Arab neighbors.

Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei was killed in the first day of the strikes.

Six U.S. service members have been killed in the operation, CENTCOM said Monday. At least 11 people have been killed in Israel. The Iranian Red Crescent says nearly 800 people have been killed in Iran.

A map created by the CBS News data team shows the strike locations across Iran, based on government officials' statements and reporting by CBS News and the Associated Press. It also shows locations where Iran's military has retaliated, with strikes so far targeting Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Iraq, Bahrain, Qatar, United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Oman.

A source involved in the Israeli strikes told CBS News that Khamenei and Iran's president, Masoud Pezeshkian, were among the targets of the first round of strikes.

Iranian news outlets said that there were also attacks on locations across the country, including in Isfahan, where there is a major nuclear facility, the holy city of Qom, and in Karaj, Kermanshah, Lorestan, and Tabriz.

In a video statement, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Israel was targeting military sites, including missile installations, adding that the attacks would continue "as long as necessary."

The Israel Defense Forces warned "all individuals located inside or near military industrial factories and military infrastructure" that they were "in proximity to weapons and facilities that are dangerous."

The IDF cautioned Iranians to evacuate such areas immediately, "until a new announcement" was issued.

"Your presence in these locations puts your life at risk," the notice read.

The U.S. military used Tomahawk Land Attack Missiles, known as TLAMs, to suppress Iranian air defenses, two U.S officials told CBS News. One-way attack drones were also used.

On Monday, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth described the U.S. military objectives as: "Destroy Iranian missiles, destroy Iranian missile production, destroy their navy and other security infrastructure and they will never have nuclear weapons."

Faris Tanyos, Tucker Reals, James LaPorta and John Kelly contributed to this report.