Paramount says US antitrust waiting period on Warner Bros bid has expired | Reuters

A city street stop sign is shown next to the Paramount water tower at the Paramount studio lot in Hollywood, Los Angeles, California, U.S., January 13, 2026. REUTERS/Mike Blake/File Photo Purchase Licensing Rights, opens new tab

- Companies

Netflix Inc

Follow

Paramount Skydance Corp

Follow

Warner Bros Discovery Inc

Follow

Feb 20 (Reuters) - Paramount (PSKY.O), opens new tab said on Friday the U.S. antitrust waiting period for its $108.4 billion all-cash bid for Warner Bros Discovery (WBD.O), opens new tab expired on February 19, marking a milestone on the road to a potential deal to acquire the owner of HBO Max.

The company said this "means there is no statutory impediment in the U.S. to closing Paramount's proposed acquisition of WBD," but the expiration of the 10-day waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act does not end the U.S. Department of Justice's review.

Sign up here.

The DOJ can continue investigating the deal, request more information and still sue to block the transaction before it closes.

In 2023, the department sued to block the proposed JetBlue-Sprint merger months after the waiting period had expired.

Paramount, however, does not have a definitive agreement with Warner Bros, which has signed a deal with Netflix that has offered to buy the studios and streaming assets for $27.75 per share, or $82.7 billion.

"Paramount Skydance continues to mislead stockholders and distract from the facts," Netflix chief legal officer, David Hyman, said.

"They have not secured approvals needed to close and they are a long way from doing so."

The Netflix deal will also face intense scrutiny from U.S. and European competition authorities, who must assess whether combining the company's global streaming power with Warner Bros Discovery's century-old studio assets would reduce competition or limit consumer choice.

Reporting by Harshita Mary Varghese in Bengaluru and Dawn Chmielewski in Los Angeles; Editing by Shinjini Ganguli and Alan Barona

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles., opens new tab

Purchase Licensing Rights