Day 9 of Middle East conflict — new Iranian leader named, global markets react to oil surges | CNN

Majid Asgaripour/Wana News Agency/Reuters

AFP/Getty Images

- Live Updates En español: guerra con Irán
- Live Updates War with Iran

# Day 9 of Middle East conflict — new Iranian leader named, global markets react to oil surges

Updated 1:30 PM EDT, Mon March 9, 2026

• Source: CNN " data-fave-thumbnails="{"big": { "uri": "https://media.cnn.com/api/v1/images/stellar/prod/03-ap26067435893888.jpg?c=16x9&q=h_540,w_960,c_fill" }, "small": { "uri": "https://media.cnn.com/api/v1/images/stellar/prod/03-ap26067435893888.jpg?c=16x9&q=h_540,w_960,c_fill" } }" data-vr-video="false" data-show-html="" data-byline-html=" By Bradley Alger, CNN " data-timestamp-html=" Updated 1:30 PM EDT, Mon March 9, 2026 " data-check-event-based-preview="false" data-is-vertical-video-embed="false" data-network-id="" data-publish-date="2025-07-23T22:22:03.000Z" data-video-section="homepage" data-canonical-url="" data-branding-key="" data-video-slug="livestream-cnn-horizon" data-first-publish-slug="livestream-cnn-horizon" data-video-tags="" data-breakpoints='{"video-resource--media-extra-large": 660}' data-display-video-cover="false" data-details=""

Watch CNN's live coverage of the war in the Middle East

• Source: CNN

• Iran’s new leader: Slain longtime ruler Ali Khamenei’s son Mojtaba has been named the country’s next supreme leader. US President Donald Trump previously said Mojtaba would be an “unacceptable” choice.

• Regional attacks: Gulf states reported fresh aerial strikes, with dozens wounded in Bahrain. A seventh US service member has died in Saudi Arabia.

• War not abating : Israel said it launched new strikes on Beirut and central Iran, while Tehran announced new missile launches hours after it named its new leader. Trump said he will decide, together with Israel, when the war will end.

• School strike: New video appears to confirm a US airstrike targeted a naval base next to an Iranian school. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth said the US was “still investigating,” while Trump is pointing the finger at Iran.

• Oil shock roils markets: Asian markets sank as oil surged past $100 per barrel, a four-year high.

Read more

All Catch up

93 Posts

Khamenei’s name as Iran’s leader will continue, a member of Iran’s Assembly of Experts, the body tasked with choosing Iran’s next supreme leader, said Sunday, although a final decision has not yet been announced.

In a video carried by Iranian media, Hosseinali Eshkevari said “the issue of determining the leadership… has been completed.”

Eshkevari’s comment suggests that Mojtaba Khamenei, the second son of the slain Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, will be announced supreme leader.

Khamenei, 56, is a mid-ranking cleric who does not hold an official role in the regime, but who is known to have strong links to the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC).

US President Donald Trump said Thursday that Khamenei’s appointment as his father’s successor would be “unacceptable” to him.

Read more

Link Copied!

Motorists pump gas at a Mobil station in Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey on Thursday.

Kena Betancur/Bloomberg/Getty Images

President Donald Trump and administration officials are attempting to allay concerns over rising gas prices as the war with Iran presses on, calling the pain at the pump a short-term effect.

Trump told ABC News the spike in gas prices is “a little glitch,” appearing unconcerned about the effect on Americans at the pump. He went on to describe the rapid climb in prices as an expected “detour.”

Since the fighting started in Iran a week ago, gasoline prices are up 47 cents, or 16%, to $3.45 for a gallon of regular, according to Sunday’s AAA reading.

White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt said the surge in prices is temporary. “This is a short-term disruption for the long-term gain of taking out the rogue Iranian terrorist regime and finally ending their restriction of the free flow of energy in the Middle East and in the Strait of Hormuz,” she said.

Interior Secretary Doug Burgum echoed those remarks, saying the rise in prices is not due to a global oil shortage, but rather a “transit issue” caused by disruptions to shipping through the crucial Strait of Hormuz.

Earlier, Energy Secretary Chris Wright told CNN the US does not plan to strike Iran’s oil industry or other energy infrastructure sites, despite Israel not demonstrating the same restraint.

Wright also attempted to tout the Trump administration’s success lowering energy costs for Americans, while faced with the fact that gas and diesel prices have spiked during the conflict.

“Gasoline today is still $1.50 a gallon cheaper than it was in the middle of Biden administration, but you’re right; we want it back below $3 a gallon, and it will be again before too long,” Wright told CNN’s Jake Tapper on “State of the Union.”

Read more

Link Copied!

Health-care workers at the Karapitiya hospital in Galle, Sri Lanka, carry the bodies of Iranian sailors who died in a US torpedo attack on the frigate IRIS Dena off Sri Lanka's southern coast on March 4, 2026.

Ishara S. Kodikara/AFP/Getty Images

Iran said at least 104 crew members were killed and 32 others injured in a US attack on the Iranian warship Iris Dena last week, the semi-official Fars News Agency reported Sunday, citing official sources.

US Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth said Wednesday that a US submarine sank an Iranian warship in international waters.

The injured crew members were taken to a hospital in Sri Lanka for treatment after authorities there launched a rescue mission, according to Fars.

Read more

Link Copied!

President Donald Trump attends a roundtable in Washington, DC on Wednesday.

Nathan Howard/Reuters

President Donald Trump said Sunday that the new supreme leader “is not going to last long” without his approval as Iran prepares to announce a successor to its longtime ruler, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.

“He’s going to have to get approval from us,” Trump told ABC News in an interview. “If he doesn’t get approval from us he’s not going to last long.”

Trump has repeatedly said he wants to be involved in the selection of Iran’s next leader, saying yesterday that he doesn’t “want to come back every 10 years.”

“We want to pick a president that’s not going to be leading their country into a war,” he told reporters aboard Air Force One on Saturday.

Trump previously told CNN he was open to having a religious leader in Iran.

“I mean, it depends on who the person is. I don’t mind religious leaders. I deal with a lot of religious leaders and they are fantastic,” he said last week.

Read more

Link Copied!

Fire breaks out at an oil depot following an Israeli strike in Tehran, Iran on Sunday.

Hassan Ghaedi/Anadolu/Getty Images

The sun has set in Tehran, and the Israeli military said it has begun “wide-scale strikes” on Iranian regime targets inside the capital of Tehran and elsewhere in the country.

A CNN team on the ground in Tehran said it heard a wave of strikes a short while ago. The Israeli military hit what it said was the headquarters of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps’ aerospace force in the new attack.

This comes after Tehran’s energy resources suffered a blow from a targeted Israeli onslaught overnight:

• Source: CNN " data-fave-thumbnails="{"big": { "uri": "https://media.cnn.com/api/v1/images/stellar/videothumbnails/74824992-56877061-generated-thumbnail.jpg?c=16x9&q=h_540,w_960,c_fill" }, "small": { "uri": "https://media.cnn.com/api/v1/images/stellar/videothumbnails/74824992-56877061-generated-thumbnail.jpg?c=16x9&q=h_540,w_960,c_fill" } }" data-vr-video="false" data-show-html="" data-byline-html=" " data-timestamp-html=" Updated 1:30 PM EDT, Mon March 9, 2026 " data-check-event-based-preview="" data-is-vertical-video-embed="false" data-network-id="" data-publish-date="2026-03-08T13:02:28.487Z" data-video-section="world" data-canonical-url="https://www.cnn.com/2026/03/08/world/video/fred-pleitgen-shahran-oil-depot-iran-tehran-us-israel-strikes-intldsk" data-branding-key="" data-video-slug="fred-pleitgen-shahran-oil-depot-iran-tehran-us-israel-strikes-intldsk" data-first-publish-slug="fred-pleitgen-shahran-oil-depot-iran-tehran-us-israel-strikes-intldsk" data-video-tags="" data-breakpoints='{"video-resource--media-extra-large": 660}' data-display-video-cover="true" data-details=""

CNN's Fred Pleitgen reports from burning Sharan oil depot in Tehran

01:13 • Source: CNN

01:13

If you’re just tuning in, here’s what else you should know:

- US-UK relations: British Prime Minister Keir Starmer spoke with President Donald Trump Sunday, Downing Street said. This comes after Trump slammed the UK for their delayed deployment of aircraft carriers.
- Iran’s new supreme leader: Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi says “nobody knows” who will be next supreme leader amid reports that the body responsible has selected a replacement for Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
- Gulf countries weigh in: The United Arab Emirates doesn’t seek to be drawn into an escalation with Iran but reserves the right to protect its sovereignty, the foreign ministry said. Separately, Oman, warned that the Middle East stands at a “dangerous turning point.”
- US Central Command issued a warning to Iranian people that Iran was putting them at risk by using “heavily populated civilian areas” to launch drones and ballistic missiles, potentially making those areas military targets.
- Tehran focusing arsenal on US bases: Iran is using 60% of its firepower to attack US bases and “strategic interests” in the Middle East, the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps said.
- Trump admin on high gas prices: US President Donald Trump called soaring gas and diesel prices “a little glitch,” appearing unconcerned about the war’s effect on Americans at the pump. US Energy Secretary Chris Wright told CNN the US has “no plans” to strike Iran’s oil industry or other energy infrastructure, as Israel has done. Wright sought to assure Americans that average gas prices would fall back below $3 within weeks.

CNN’s Abbas Al Lawati, Tamar Michaelis, Billy Stockwell, Tim Lister, Kit Maher, Haley Britzky and Catherine Nicholls contributed to this report.

Read more

Link Copied!

Two people were killed and 12 others injured after a military projectile struck a residential facility in Al-Kharj, about 107 km (66 miles) southeast of Riyadh, Saudi Civil Defense said. The incident marks the first reported deaths in the kingdom since the start of the war with Iran.

Saudi Civil Defense said emergency teams responded on Sunday after the projectile struck a housing site used by a maintenance and cleaning company.

The statement did not specify who launched the projectile.

Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps said earlier on Sunday that it had targeted radar systems at several locations, including in Al-Kharj, Iran’s state broadcaster IRIB reported.

Al-Kharj lies near Prince Sultan Air Base, a major Saudi air force installation southeast of Riyadh that has been targeted by Iran repeatedly in recent days.

The two killed were an Indian and a Bangladeshi national, while the 12 injured were all Bangladeshi.

Read more

Link Copied!

Interior Secretary Doug Burgum speaks in La Crosse, Wisconsin, on August 28, 2025.

Andrew Harnik/Pool/Reuters

Interior Secretary Doug Burgum argued Sunday that the rise in gas prices amid the war with Iran is not due to a global oil shortage, but rather a “transit issue” caused by disruptions to shipping through the Strait of Hormuz.

“This is not about lack of oil in the world. This is about a transit issue. This is about the Strait of Hormuz,” Burgum said on Fox News’ “Sunday Briefing.”

Burgum echoed other Trump administration officials, saying that with sustained military success, oil can be expected to start flowing out of the strait again “in the weeks ahead.”

He also argued the US has limited reliance on the region, saying only roughly 3% of US energy imports move through the strait.

Very few ships have transited the Strait of Hormuz, a crucial channel through which 20% of the world’s oil passes, since the war began more than a week ago.

Asked whether alternative supply could offset any Middle East disruptions, Burgum argued US energy production and Venezuelan resources can help counteract the gap, saying there is enough energy “because Venezuela is part of this equation now.”

More on gas prices: Since the fighting started in Iran a week ago, gasoline prices are up 47 cents, or 16%, to $3.45 for a gallon of regular, according to Sunday’s AAA reading.

Read more

Link Copied!

US President Donald Trump and UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer shake hands during a press conference in Aylesbury, England, in September 2025.

Leon Neal/Getty Images

British Prime Minister Keir Starmer spoke with Donald Trump about the Middle East on Sunday, Starmer’s office said in a statement, a day after the US president criticized the United Kingdom’s lack of immediate support for the US-Israeli strikes on Iran.

It added that Starmer shared his “heartfelt condolences” with Trump and the American people following the deaths of six US service members during the conflict with Iran.

CNN has reached out to the White House for comment.

Some key context: The call came after Trump on Saturday slammed Britain on social media for “finally giving serious thought” to deploying aircraft carriers to the Middle East.

He told Starmer “we don’t need them anymore,” but stressed: “We will remember. We don’t need people that join Wars after we’ve already won!”

Trump’s post was the second time he has criticized Starmer in recent days. At the White House on Tuesday, Trump said he was “not happy” with Starmer.

In Parliament on Wednesday, Starmer said he was not prepared for Britain “to join a war unless I was satisfied there was a lawful basis and a viable, thought-through plan.”

Read more

Link Copied!

Several Democratic lawmakers are signaling their opposition to a potential request for more funding for the Pentagon in light of the Iran war, arguing the Trump administration has not adequately outlined its objectives or expectations for how long the war might last.

Congress last year authorized nearly $900 billion in funding for military programs in a bipartisan package to fund the Defense Department through this fiscal year. But the Trump administration has briefed lawmakers on the potential need for more money amid the conflict, which analysts estimate is costing American taxpayers more than $890 million a day.

“At this particular point in time, the administration has failed to make its case as to the rationale or justification for this war of choice in the Middle East,” House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries told NBC’s “Meet the Press” today.

It was unclear even after the Trump administration’s briefings with lawmakers how much money the Pentagon may ask for, when that request would come and how long officials expect the war to last.

The chances of advancing a package with the 60 votes needed in the Senate are also uncertain, as some Democrats, like Sen. Chris Murphy, make clear they are firmly opposed.

“If you support the troops, then you should be voting against funding this war so that we get our troops out of harm’s way,” Murphy told CNN’s “State of the Union.”

Most Senate Republicans opposed an effort to rein in Trump’s war powers in Iran last week, but some have indicated their position may change if the conflict drags on. Opposition from some Republicans could prove tricky for the administration’s efforts to get more money out of Congress.

Read more

Link Copied!

President Donald Trump called higher gas prices “a little glitch,” appearing unconcerned about the effect on Americans at the pump as the war with Iran has reached its ninth day.

“I think it’s fine. It’s a little glitch. We had to take this detour. I knew exactly what was going to happen with the detour,” Trump told ABC News in an interview. “But the nice part is we sank 44 of their ships, which is their entire navy,” he said, going on to tout the US military’s efforts in the war.

Since the fighting started in Iran a week ago, gasoline prices are up 47 cents, or 16%, to $3.45 for a gallon of regular, according to Sunday’s AAA reading.

War’s popularity: Trump also claimed that the US conflict with Iran is “more popular than ever,” despite polling that suggests otherwise and dissent from some MAGA Republicans.

“It’s a very MAGA thing what we’re doing,” he said, adding, “Because otherwise we won’t have a country either, we’ll be hit. And MAGA is all about saving America.”

Fifty-nine percent of Americans disapproved of the initial decision to strike Iran, according to a CNN/SSRS poll conducted shortly after the war began, with 41% approving. In an NBC News poll released Sunday, his approval for handling Iran also stood at 41%.

Dignified transfer: The president told ABC that meeting yesterday with the families of the six US service members killed in the war did not give him pause.

“The parents would be upset if I did that,” he said. “The parents said to me, every one of them, ‘Please sir, win this for my boy,’ and in one case a young woman, as you know. ‘Please, win this for my child.’”

Read more

Link Copied!

• Source: CNN " data-fave-thumbnails="{"big": { "uri": "https://media.cnn.com/api/v1/images/stellar/prod/gettyimages-2264852446.jpg?c=16x9&q=h_540,w_960,c_fill" }, "small": { "uri": "https://media.cnn.com/api/v1/images/stellar/prod/gettyimages-2264852446.jpg?c=16x9&q=h_540,w_960,c_fill" } }" data-vr-video="false" data-show-html="" data-byline-html=" " data-timestamp-html=" Updated 1:30 PM EDT, Mon March 9, 2026 " data-check-event-based-preview="" data-is-vertical-video-embed="false" data-network-id="" data-publish-date="2026-03-08T14:32:46.307Z" data-video-section="world" data-canonical-url="" data-branding-key="" data-video-slug="flights-brussels-belgium-dubai-uae-repatriation-intldsk-ls" data-first-publish-slug="flights-brussels-belgium-dubai-uae-repatriation-intldsk-ls" data-video-tags="" data-breakpoints='{"video-resource--media-extra-large": 660}' data-display-video-cover="true" data-details=""

Repatriation flight from UAE returns to Belgium as flights resume from Dubai airport

00:59 • Source: CNN

00:59

Thousands of people who were stranded in the Middle East have been evacuated on repatriation flights in recent days, according to local authorities, as the current conflict spirals across the region.

- Thailand: A total of 62 Thai nationals have been evacuated from Iran to Turkey so far, Thailand’s foreign ministry said Sunday. They will be flown to Thailand early next week, it said.
- Estonia: Estonians evacuated the region on a flight to Tallinn, as well as the above flight to Riga, Estonia’s foreign minister said Saturday morning. Four more flights were planned to depart Dubai this weekend, he said.
- Latvia: Two airBaltic flights left Dubai on Friday and traveled to Riga, Latvia’s capital, according to the country’s prime minister.
- Malta: Maltese nationals who were stranded in Qatar were evacuated to Berlin on Sunday morning, the Embassy of Malta in Qatar said on X.
- Belgium: 195 Belgians arrived in Brussels on Sunday morning after evacuating Muscat, according to Belgium’s foreign ministry.
- Luxembourg: Four repatriation flights carrying 516 passengers total have evacuated people from Oman to Luxembourg, the country’s foreign ministry said Saturday morning,
- Poland: Three aircraft carrying 282 Polish citizens landed in Warsaw on Saturday evening, its foreign ministry said on X. All passengers were evacuated from Qatar.
- Greece: More than 500 Greek citizens and their families were evacuated from Dubai, Qatar, Kuwait and Bahrain to Athens on Saturday, Greece’s foreign ministry said in a statement.
- Germany: More than 650 people have been evacuated on three government-organized flights from Muscat, Oman to Frankfurt in the last week, a source from German Federal Foreign Office told CNN. A fourth flight from Riyadh, Saudi Arabia was on its way to Germany on Sunday afternoon, they said.
- UK: Two charter flights have left Oman for the United Kingdom, with a third planned to depart on Sunday, the British foreign office said on Saturday night. Almost 27,000 Brits have left the region since March 1, it said, though it did not clarify if this number includes people who traveled back to the UK without government assistance.
- US: The United States has facilitated “nearly two dozen charter flights and has safely evacuated thousands of Americans from the Middle East,” Assistant Secretary of State Dylan Johnson said. The US State Department has “directly assisted over 19,000 Americans abroad, offering security guidance and travel assistance,” Johnson added.

CNN’s Jennifer Hansler and Sarah El Sirgany contributed to this reporting.

Read more

Link Copied!

Fire and smoke rise in the Fujairah oil industry zone, caused by debris after interception of a drone by air defenses, in Fujairah, United Arab Emirates, on March 4.

Amr Alfiky/Reuters

The United Arab Emirates doesn’t seek to be drawn into an escalation with Iran but reserves the right to protect its sovereignty, the foreign ministry said.

“The UAE stresses that it does not seek to be drawn into conflicts or escalation,” foreign ministry spokesperson Afra Al Hameli posted on X. “However, the UAE reaffirms its full right to take all necessary measures to safeguard its sovereignty, national security, and territorial integrity… in accordance with international law and the UN Charter.”

The UAE has been among the hardest hit of the roughly dozen countries that have reported being struck by Iranian projectiles.

Earlier on Sunday, the Jerusalem Post reported that the UAE had struck an Iranian desalination plant in its first attack on the country, citing an unidentified Israeli source. The paper later cited a UAE official denying the report.

Anwar Gargash, adviser to the UAE president, said on X that the country was in a defensive position in the war and that any measures it takes “will be public and clear, and will not rely on press leaks or narratives from unknown sources and intentions.”

The Jerusalem Post last week reported, citing unidentified Western diplomats, that Qatar had carried out its first strike against Iran, which Qatar denied.

Gulf Arab states rely heavily on desalination plants for much of their drinking water.

Read more

Link Copied!

The Israeli military said it has begun “wide-scale strikes” on Iranian regime targets in capital city Tehran and in “additional areas” in the country.

A CNN team on the ground in Tehran heard a wave of strikes a short while ago.

Read more

Link Copied!

The Israeli military said a short while ago that it had carried out another wave of strikes in Tehran, hitting what it said was the headquarters of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps’ aerospace force.

The site was used for research purposes and satellite monitoring, according to the Israeli military.

In addition, the IDF said it had struck dozens of other sites including around 50 bunkers that it said stored ammunition, as well as an IRGC compound and an internal security center.

Read more

Link Copied!

Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi delivers a speech in Geneva, Switzerland, on February 17.

Valentin Flauraud/AFP/Getty Images

Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi says “nobody knows” who will be next supreme leader amid reports that the body responsible has selected a replacement for Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.

Speaking on NBC’s “Meet The Press” on Sunday, Araghchi said, “There are lots of rumors around, but we have to wait for the Assembly of Experts to convene and vote for the new Supreme Leader.”

The Assembly is an 88-member body of senior clerics that selects Iran’s Supreme Leader. Its members are elected by Iranian voters.

Araghchi said that until the assembly convenes, the interim leadership council is in charge, and all Iranian institutions are carrying out their work. Some observers say that a new leader can’t be appointed until the assembly meets in person.

Araghchi was also asked about US President Donald Trump’s assertion that he must have a say in the election of new leadership for Iran.

Nor would Iran accept Trump’s demand for unconditional surrender, he said.

He said that in June last year, Iran had accepted a ceasefire, but this time there needed to be a permanent end to the war.

“No one wants to continue this war,” Araghchi said, adding that Iran will continue to act in self-defense.

He insisted Iran was not attacking its neighbors but rather US facilities and installations in Gulf Arab countries.

Read more

Link Copied!

• Source: CNN " data-fave-thumbnails="{"big": { "uri": "https://media.cnn.com/api/v1/images/stellar/videothumbnails/80754697-95076424-generated-thumbnail.jpg?c=16x9&q=h_540,w_960,c_fill" }, "small": { "uri": "https://media.cnn.com/api/v1/images/stellar/videothumbnails/80754697-95076424-generated-thumbnail.jpg?c=16x9&q=h_540,w_960,c_fill" } }" data-vr-video="false" data-show-html="" data-byline-html=" By Jake Tapper, CNN " data-timestamp-html=" Updated 1:30 PM EDT, Mon March 9, 2026 " data-check-event-based-preview="" data-is-vertical-video-embed="false" data-network-id="" data-publish-date="2026-03-08T14:15:23.100Z" data-video-section="politics" data-canonical-url="https://www.cnn.com/2026/03/08/politics/video/energy-secretary-chris-wright-trump-administration-gas-prices-iran-strikes-oil-storage" data-branding-key="" data-video-slug="energy-secretary-chris-wright-trump-administration-gas-prices-iran-strikes-oil-storage" data-first-publish-slug="energy-secretary-chris-wright-trump-administration-gas-prices-iran-strikes-oil-storage" data-video-tags="" data-breakpoints='{"video-resource--media-extra-large": 660}' data-display-video-cover="true" data-details=""

Energy Secretary says there are ‘no plans’ for the US to target Iran’s oil industry

07:10 • Source: CNN

07:10

The United States does not plan to strike Iran’s oil industry or other energy infrastructure sites, Energy Secretary Chris Wright told CNN’s Jake Tapper on “State of the Union.” But Israel has not demonstrated the same.

“There are no plans to target Iran’s oil industry, natural gas industry or anything about their energy industry,” Wright said. “These are Israeli strikes. These are local fuel depots to fill up the gas tank in this neighborhood in Tehran. The US is targeting zero energy infrastructure.”

Wright acknowledged the “air quality impacts” of the Israeli strikes on Iran’s oil storage sites, which Iranians have told CNN are “suffocating.” But he said “a few days of lower air quality in Tehran” is nothing compared to what the Iranian people suffered under the regime.

Gas prices: Wright also attempted to tout the Trump administration’s success lowering energy costs for Americans, while faced with the fact that gas and diesel have spiked during the conflict. Diesel prices are rising higher than gas right now, CNN reported, given it was in shorter supply previously.

“We’ve seen a dramatic decline in gasoline prices and diesel prices. Assume you will see it in electricity prices, as well,” Wright said, referring to previous administration efforts. “Gasoline today is still $1.50 a gallon cheaper than it was in the middle of Biden administration, but you’re right; we want it back below $3 a gallon, and it will be again before too long.”

Pressed by Tapper what “too long” means, Wright said weeks — not months.

This post has been updated with video from the interview.

Read more

Link Copied!

White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt described rising gas prices due to the Iran war as “short term disruption for the long-term gain.”

“This is a short-term disruption for the long-term gain of taking out the rogue Iranian terrorist regime and finally ending their restriction of the free flow of energy in the Middle East and in the Strait of Hormuz,” Leavitt said.

Energy Secretary Chris Wright told CNN’s Jake Tapper earlier that one oil tanker made it through the Strait of Hormuz “about 24 hours ago.” The passage typically sees 60 or more ships a day. Leavitt also said Trump is “tapping into our newfound market in Venezuela,” after the US captured the nation’s president, Nicolás Maduro, and Trump said he would seize the country’s oil reserves.

Read more

Link Copied!

US Central Command on today issued a warning to Iranian people that Iran was putting them at risk by using “heavily populated civilian areas” to launch drones and ballistic missiles, potentially making those areas military targets.

“This dangerous decision risks the lives of all civilians in Iran since locations used for military purposes lose protected status and could become legitimate military targets under international law,” the release said.

A US official said the US military has seen several instances of Iran taking mobile drone or ballistic missile launchers into densely populated civilian areas. The warning on Sunday specifically named Dezful, Esfahan, and Shiraz as cities where Iran has used crowded areas to launch drones or missile attacks from.

The official stressed that the warning shouldn’t be understood to mean the US military is preparing to strike the named locations, but the release also specifies that the US “cannot guarantee” civilian safety in or near facilities being used for military purposes. The warning on Sunday was intended to let Iran know “we see what you’re doing,” the official said, and to tell the Iranian people “your government is doing this to you, they’re putting you at risk.”

“US forces strongly urge civilians in Iran to stay at home,” the release said. “The Iranian regime is knowingly endangering innocent lives.”

Read more

Link Copied!

• Source: CNN " data-fave-thumbnails="{"big": { "uri": "https://media.cnn.com/api/v1/images/stellar/videothumbnails/74824992-56877061-generated-thumbnail.jpg?c=16x9&q=h_540,w_960,c_fill" }, "small": { "uri": "https://media.cnn.com/api/v1/images/stellar/videothumbnails/74824992-56877061-generated-thumbnail.jpg?c=16x9&q=h_540,w_960,c_fill" } }" data-vr-video="false" data-show-html="" data-byline-html=" " data-timestamp-html=" Updated 1:30 PM EDT, Mon March 9, 2026 " data-check-event-based-preview="" data-is-vertical-video-embed="false" data-network-id="" data-publish-date="2026-03-08T13:02:28.487Z" data-video-section="world" data-canonical-url="https://www.cnn.com/2026/03/08/world/video/fred-pleitgen-shahran-oil-depot-iran-tehran-us-israel-strikes-intldsk" data-branding-key="" data-video-slug="fred-pleitgen-shahran-oil-depot-iran-tehran-us-israel-strikes-intldsk" data-first-publish-slug="fred-pleitgen-shahran-oil-depot-iran-tehran-us-israel-strikes-intldsk" data-video-tags="" data-breakpoints='{"video-resource--media-extra-large": 660}' data-display-video-cover="true" data-details=""

CNN's Fred Pleitgen reports from burning Sharan oil depot in Tehran

01:13 • Source: CNN

01:13

A CNN team has witnessed the thick black plumes of smoke emerging from the fire at the Sharan Oil Deposit in northeast Tehran, one of Iran’s largest fuel storage facilities.

We saw flames emerging from several storage tanks, still ablaze hours after overnight airstrikes.

The surrounding area has also suffered extensive damage as a result, with workers scrambling to try and restore access to electricity.

As we’ve reported, Tehran’s nearly 10 million people awoke to a morning overcast by thick black clouds after Israeli strikes hit Iran’s oil storage sites. Falling rainwater was black and saturated with oil.

CNN operates in Iran only with government permission.

Read more

Link Copied!

US President Donald Trump speaks with the media aboard Air Force One on Saturday.

Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images

Republican Sen. Thom Tillis said President Donald Trump owes the American people and Congress “clarity” on the operation in Iran.

“I think that we need to articulate our objectives and our goals, because the American people right now are questioning whether or not we should be in this war,” he told CNN’s Jake Tapper on “State of the Union.”

Tillis said clarity on those aspects of the conflict would allow them to “start building support for an engagement that could go on for more than the two months” under the War Powers Resolution.

Tillis said if the conflict went beyond the two months, then the president would have to come to Congress.

“I think beyond that 60-day period within the War Powers resolution, there has to either be a very clear commitment long term and a request in Congress, or, I believe, a cessation of hostilities,” he said.

Read more

Link Copied!

Scan the QR code to download the CNN app on Google Play.

Scan the QR code to download the CNN app from the Apple Store.