Nebius stock pops 16% on Nvidia $2 billion investment announcement

Key Points

- Nebius Group’s stock popped after Nvidia announced it would invest $2 billion in the AI cloud company.
- The companies will collaborate on AI infrastructure deployment, fleet management, inference and AI factory design and support as part of the deal.
- The announcement comes a week after Nvidia unveiled strategic partnerships with Lumentum and Coherent, investing $2 billion in each company.

Jensen Huang, chief executive officer of Nvidia Corp., speaks during the 2026 CES event in Las Vegas, Nevada, US, on Tuesday, Jan. 6, 2026. Siemens and Nvidia announced an expansion of their strategic partnership to develop industrial and physical AI solutions to bring AI-driven innovation to industrial workflow. Photographer: Bridget Bennett/Bloomberg via Getty Images

Bloomberg | Bloomberg | Getty Images

Shares of Nebius Group popped 16% on Wednesday after Nvidia announced it would invest $2 billion in the artificial intelligence cloud company.

As part of the deal, the companies will collaborate on AI infrastructure deployment, fleet management, inference and AI factory design and support, according to a release. Nvidia will also give Nebius early access to the latest generation of its accelerated computing platform as the company looks to deploy more than five gigawatts of capacity by the end of 2030.

“Nebius is building an AI cloud designed for the agentic era, fully integrated from silicon to software and powered by NVIDIA’s next-generation accelerated compute,” Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang said in a statement. “Together, we are scaling the cloud to meet the surging global demand for intelligence.”

Nvidia shares closed marginally higher Wednesday.

The announcement comes a week after Nvidia unveiled strategic partnerships with Lumentum and Coherent, investing $2 billion in each company. In December, Nvidia took a $2 billion stake in chip design firm Synopsys and in January announced a $2 billion stake in CoreWeave.

The chipmaking giant also announced a “significant investment” in Mira Murati’s Thinking Machines Lab on Tuesday as part of a new multiyear strategic partnership.

Nvidia contributed $30 billion to the $110 billion funding round that OpenAI announced late last month, and it said in November that it planned to invest up to $10 billion in Anthropic. Huang said during a conference earlier this month that those investments might be the last time Nvidia invests in those companies before they go public.

## Read more CNBC tech news

- OpenAI’s data center pivot underscores Wall Street spending concerns ahead of IPO
- From satellites to space data centers: Why low earth orbit is attracting billions in investment
- OpenClaw’s ChatGPT moment sparks concern that AI models are becoming commodities
- OpenAI’s first crack at online shopping stumbled. It’s preparing for the next wave

Nvidia has been one of the biggest benefactors of the AI boom because it produces the graphics processing units, or GPUs, that are required to train models and run large AI workloads.

The chipmaker’s Wednesday announcement builds on Nebius’ ongoing efforts to deploy Nvidia’s infrastructure, including in multiple gigawatt-scale AI factories in the U.S.

“Nebius has been built for AI since day one — not adapted from a general-purpose cloud, but designed for what developers actually need,” Nebius CEO Arkady Volozh said in a statement. “Now with NVIDIA, we are extending that throughout the stack — from gigawatt-scale AI factories to inference and software — as we build one of the first and largest clouds for all AI builders everywhere.”

Stock chart icon

Nebius one-day stock chart.

WATCH: Large cap tech stocks like Nvidia are a deal now, says Silvant Capital’s Michael Sansoterra

Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news.