Iran Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei is dead after U.S., Israel attack

---

EVENT ENDEDLast updated March 01, 2026, 2:06 AM EDT

President Donald Trump called the ayatollah "one of the most evil people in history" in a Truth Social post announcing his death after predawn strikes in Iran.

Iranian state media confirms death of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei

02:34

Add NBC News to Google

## What to know

- TEHRAN WILLING TO TALK: In an exclusive interview with NBC News, Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said Iran was interested in de-escalation and willing to talk if the U.S. and Israel halted attacks. He told Trump that regime change was "mission impossible."
- IRAN RETALIATION: Iran responded by firing missiles at Israel, as well as at U.S. bases across the region in the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Kuwait, Bahrain and Jordan, sending ripples across the Middle East.
- DEATH TOLL: The Iranian Red Crescent said more than 200 people have been killed and roughly 700 others have been injured.
- TRUMP URGES REGIME CHANGE: Trump urged Iranians to “take over your government” when the strikes are over. “The hour of your freedom is at hand,” he said.
- IRAN'S LEADERS TARGETED: Israel targeted Iranian political and military leaders, two U.S. officials told NBC News, while the U.S. aimed to take out Iran’s ballistic missile and nuclear programs.
- MAJOR JOINT ATTACK: The U.S. launched "major combat operations" in Iran, joined by Israel, Trump announced earlier in a video message.
- SUPREME LEADER DEAD: President Donald Trump announced on Truth Social that Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, was killed Saturday after the U.S. and Israel launched a predawn assault on the country. Iranian state media later confirmed his death.
- This live blog has ended. Follow live coverage

NEW UPDATES

18d ago / 2:06 AM EDT

At least 12 people were injured in Kuwait following the airstrikes in the region, the country's Health Ministry told state news agency KUNA.

The victims' injuries were reported as minor blunt-force trauma, a hand injury and other superficial injuries to the face and neck.

Earlier in the day, Kuwait's Directorate General of Civil Aviation reported that Kuwait International Airport was targeted by a drone, resulting in injuries to employees.

18d ago / 1:49 AM EDT

The Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps said 27 U.S. military locations in the Middle East were targeted in Iran's latest retaliatory wave of counterattacks.

Iran's forces also targeted Israel's Tel Nof airbase, its military headquarters, and a large defense industry complex in Tel Aviv, the IRGC said, according to semi-offithe cial state news agency IRIB (Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting).

The IRGC said missiles and drones were used in this sixth "wave" of retaliatory attacks, and it vowed to continue its warfare in response to the offensive by U.S. and Israeli forces.

"The armed forces of the Islamic Republic of Iran will not allow the air raid sirens in the occupied territories and American bases to stop, and will continue to deliver repeated and regret making strikes as a different and very hard step of revenge," it said, according to IRIB.

NBC News has not immediately confirmed the strikes.

18d ago / 1:34 AM EDT

Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth praised the U.S. military's strikes on Iran, calling "Operation Epic Fury" the "most lethal, most complex, and most-precision aerial operation in history."

"The Iranian regime had their chance, yet refused to make a deal — and now they are suffering the consequences," Hegseth said on X."For almost fifty years, Iran has targeted and killed Americans, always seeking the world’s most powerful weapons to further their radical cause. Last night, unlike any previous president, President Trump began dealing with this cancer."

He said the Defense Department "will not tolerate powerful missiles targeting the American people," adding that the operation will destroy Iran's missiles, missile production and its navy.

"As President Trump has said his entire life, Iran will never have a nuclear weapon," Hegseth said.

"The United States did not start this conflict, but we will finish it. If you kill or threaten Americans anywhere in the world — as Iran has — then we will hunt you down, and we will kill you," the post continued.

18d ago / 1:21 AM EDT

Iran's supreme leader was killed in Israel's opening strike against Iran during its part of the U.S. and Israeli offensive, according to the Israel's defense minister.

Khamenei was killed alongside other senior leaders in Iran during Israel's attack, dubbed "Roar of the Lion," Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz said, according to a spokesperson who relayed his remarks.

He praised the Israel Defense Forces for what he characterized as their "brilliant execution."

"Whoever acted to destroy Israel — was destroyed," Katz said. "Justice has been served, and the axis of evil has suffered a crushing blow."

Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian vowed to avenge the killing of Khamenei, which has set off a declaration of martyrdom and 40 days of national mourning in Iran.

Katz said Israel will defend itself. "We will continue to act with full force to defend the State of Israel," he said.

18d ago / 1:06 AM EDT

Details of weapons used in Iran strike

01:10

For the first time ever, the U.S. used "suicide" drones in combat as it launched an offensive against Iran. The so-called one-way attack drones are packed with explosives and slam into their targets.

The U.S. has also used precision Tomahawk land attack missiles fired from U.S. Navy ships in the region, as well as strikes from various fighter jets, to fire at hundreds of targets in Iran, according to two U.S. officials.

18d ago / 12:54 AM EDT

Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian declared Khamenei a martyr and vowed revenge for his killing.

The martyrdom declaration means 40 days of mourning, as previously announced by state-affiliated news, can begin to take place nationwide.

Pezeshkian praised Khamenei, the Middle East's longest-serving head of state, for 37 years of leadership in the statement via the semi-official news agency Nour News.

Khamenei "led the Islamic Revolution with wisdom and courage, carried the flag of the Islamic front, and with his strong faith created a new chapter in Islamic governance," Pezeshkian said.

He vowed to avenge Khamenei's death, saying those who took part in planning it will regret their participation.

Show more

"This great crime will not go unanswered and will create a new chapter in the history of the Islamic and Shia world," he said. "The pure blood of this respected leader will rise like a flowing spring and will root out American-Zionist oppression and crime."

Pezeshkian concluded: "With full strength and support from the Islamic nation and free people of the world, we will make the planners and perpetrators of this crime regret it."

18d ago / 12:40 AM EDT

Trump warned Iran not to “hit very hard” as it responds to U.S.-Israeli strikes, saying the U.S. would respond with even more force.

“Iran just stated that they are going to hit very hard today, harder than they have ever hit before,” he said on social media. “THEY BETTER NOT DO THAT, HOWEVER, BECAUSE IF THEY DO, WE WILL HIT THEM WITH A FORCE THAT HAS NEVER BEEN SEEN BEFORE!”

Mohammad Bagher Qalibaf, Iran’s parliament speaker, said on state-run television that Iran would “get even with the Americans and Israelis.”

“Trump and Netanyahu have crossed a red line and will pay the price for it,” he said. “We will strike you with such painful blows that you will beg for mercy, you will see.”

18d ago / 12:18 AM EDT

Gas prices likely to rise after attack in Iran

01:18

Analysts say oil prices are likely to rise when markets reopen tomorrow night as a result of the attack in Iran. Depending on how much the conflict escalates, crude oil could jump as much as $15 to $20 a barrel, the analysts said, which could translate to gas prices' jumping by as much as 30 to 60 cents a gallon.

18d ago / 12:00 AM EDT

Bahrain is warning people to seek shelter amid ongoing Iranian attacks in the country.

"The siren has been sounded," the country's Interior Ministry said on X. "Citizens and residents are urged to remain calm and head to the nearest safe place."

The U.S. Embassy in Bahrain had earlier issued a security alert urging Americans to avoid high-rises because it confirmed Iranian drones had attacked such buildings.

18d ago / 11:39 PM EDT

The U.S. Embassy in Bahrain today issued a security alert urging Americans to avoid high-rises because it has confirmed that armed Iranian drones have attacked such structures.

The alert applies broadly to high-rises in Bahrain, but it also focuses on those of the Juffair district south of the center of Manama, the island nation's capital.

"There are confirmed reports of high-rise buildings in Bahrain being struck by Iranian armed drones," the embassy said in its alert. "The U.S. government has determined the broader Juffair area, and high-rise buildings in Bahrain, are not safe for U.S. personnel."

Show more

The embassy said reports of attacks on Americans in Bahrain by Iran and its proxies are unconfirmed.

"We encourage everyone to practice personal security awareness, be aware of their surroundings, and avoid large groups and demonstrations," the embassy said.

The embassy earlier described Bahrain as being under a Level 3 travel advisory, which describes the highest threat to Americans abroad before a fourth-level "do not travel" advisory may be issued. It said nonemergency U.S. government personnel and their families are authorized to leave amid attacks from Iran and its forces.

Earlier, missiles struck the U.S. Navy service center in Bahrain. No casualties were reported.

18d ago / 11:12 PM EDT

Iranian state media has confirmed the deaths of two officials in the U.S. and Israeli airstrikes yesterday.

State media outlet IRNA confirmed the deaths of Ali Shamkhani, the secretary of the Iranian Defense Council, and Mohammad Pakpour, the commander of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.

The Israel Defense Forces earlier said Shamkhani and Pakpour were among seven Iranian officials killed in the airstrikes.

The IDF also reported the deaths of Defense Minister Aziz Nasirzadeh; Saleh Asadi, head of the Intelligence Directorate of the Khatam al-Anbiya emergency command; Mohammad Shirazi, head of the Military Bureau; Hossein Jabal Amelian, chairman of the Organization of Defensive Innovation and Research; and Reza Mozaffari-Nia, former chairman of the Organization of Defensive Innovation and Research.

Trump said Khamenei was killed along with other top leaders. State media has also confirmed Khamenei’s death.

“The people that make all the decisions, most of them are gone,” Trump told NBC News in a phone call, adding that “a large amount of leadership” in Iran was also killed, although he declined to go into more detail.

18d ago / 10:54 PM EDT

Iran has a process for choosing a successor to Khamenei, killed in the U.S. and Israeli attack.

Article 111 of the country's constitution gives the job to its Assembly of Experts, an 88-member body of qualified clerics approved by voters, according to the Council on Foreign Relations.

Until the assembly speaks, a three-member council of the president, the head of the judiciary and a jurist of the Guardian Council chosen by the country's Expediency Discernment Council takes over the supreme leader's duties, according to the constitution.

If any of those three are unable to serve, the Expediency Discernment Council is to appoint a replacement, the constitution decrees.

Suzanne Maloney, a senior fellow for Middle East policy at the Brookings Institution's Foreign Policy Program, said that process, as well as other political forces in Iran, may withstand outside influence.

"Any mere change at the top of Iran’s leadership remains insufficient to topple the current system," she said in a post on the Council on Foreign Relations website today. "Over time, a political movement capable of challenging the regime could yet emerge, but any forthcoming leadership transition in Iran is unlikely to result in a beneficial change in the regime itself."

18d ago / 10:09 PM EDT

Reza Pahlavi, the son of the former Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, whose government was overthrown in the 1979 revolution in Iran, said today that he hopes the death of the ayatollah means a change for the country.

“To the military, law enforcement, and security forces: any effort to preserve a collapsing regime will fail,” Pahlavi said on X.

“This is your final opportunity to join the nation, to help ensure Iran’s stable transition to a free and prosperous future, and to take part in building that future,” he said.

“Honorable and courageous people of Iran, This may be the beginning of our great national celebration, but it is not the end of the road,” Pahlavi wrote. “Remain vigilant and prepared. The time for a widespread and decisive presence in the streets is very near.”

18d ago / 9:51 PM EDT

Israel's ambassador to the U.N., Danny Danon, today justified the Israeli and U.S. strikes, saying the aim was “to stop an existential threat to Israel, to our allies and to global stability."

“When a regime chants ‘death to Israel,’ ‘death to America,’ we take it seriously. We believe them, and we act,” Danon said before a Security Council meeting.

Danon said Israel and the U.S. targeted Iran’s nuclear and missile capabilities and aimed to “break the terror proxy network.”

He also criticized those who have spoken out against the strikes, including U.N. Secretary-General António Guterres, who condemned the military escalation.

Show more

“We all know when the real escalation began,” Danon said. “It began when the Iranian regime armed proxies across the region, when it expanded missiles and drones, when it advanced its nuclear program in violation of all its commitments and when it brutally slaughtered its own people.”

Guterres repeated his condemnation of the strikes, as well as Iran's missile attacks in response, at the Security Council meeting.

"Military action carries the risk of igniting a chain of events that no one can control in the most volatile region of the world," he said.

18d ago / 9:39 PM EDT

U.S. talks with Iran on Thursday went so poorly that they confirmed for Trump that it was time to take military action, said a senior administration official and a former U.S. official familiar with the matter.

Another senior administration official told reporters today that Thursday’s round of negotiations in Geneva showed Iran was “not serious about doing a deal.” But on Thursday, two people with direct knowledge of the U.S. viewpoint of the talks had described the discussions afterward as “positive.” The following day, Trump said, “We’re not happy with the negotiation.”

Characterizations of Thursday’s talks conflicted as the Trump administration tries to outline a rationale for Trump’s decision to launch military action in Iran.

Show more

Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said in an interview today with NBC News that the weekend strike is the second time the U.S. has attacked Iran in the midst of negotiations — the first time was in June— and that he doesn’t understand why, because during Thursday’s talks, “we made a big progress.”

“We had a very good meeting in Geneva, together with Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner, and we were able to address serious questions related to Iran’s nuclear program,” he said, referring to Trump’s special envoy and son-in-law, who led the Iran negotiations.

The U.S. and Iran had been expected to follow up with a round of technical talks next week, said the foreign minister of Oman, Badr al-Busaidi, who had been mediating negotiations between the two sides. Trump administration officials did not confirm to NBC News at the time that the U.S. would participate in the Vienna talks.

Israel was not part of the U.S. talks with Iran, and it was skeptical of any nuclear agreement.

18d ago / 9:24 PM EDT

01:24

Law enforcement agencies are on alert tonight after the U.S. strikes on Iran. They are working with intelligence agencies to thwart potential threats at home and stepping up patrols at sensitive areas like houses of worship and diplomatic sites.

18d ago / 9:16 PM EDT

Khamenei was killed while he was in his office, Iran state media reported.

“The Supreme Leader of the Islamic Revolution of Iran was martyred at his workplace in the Beit Rahbari (his compound)," state news agency IRIB's Telegram account said.

"He was carrying out his assigned duties and present at his place of work (his office) at the moment of martyrdom, and this attack took place in the early hours of Saturday morning," the post continued.

18d ago / 9:00 PM EDT

The Israeli military says it has begun a new wave of strikes on Iran targeting ballistic missile arrays and aerial defense systems.

Israel begins new wave of strikes on Iran targeting missile systems

00:59

18d ago / 8:51 PM EDT

Iran will observe 40 days of mourning and seven days of holiday time to honor Khamenei, who Iranian state media now confirms was killed in the U.S. attack.

The public mourning and holidays are to follow the government's official declaration of martyrdom for the ayatollah, the semi-official Iranian state media outlet Nour News said on Telegram.

18d ago / 8:47 PM EDT

Iranian state media confirms death of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei

02:34

Ayatollah Ali Khamenei is dead, Iranian media confirmed.

“It is announced to the martyr-nurturing people of Iran that Grand Ayatollah Khamenei, the Supreme Leader of the Islamic Revolution, was martyred in a joint attack by the criminal United States and the Zionist regime," a semi-official Iranian government news agency reported.

"This great scholar and fighter devoted his life to the elevation of Iran and Islam, and, God willing, is united with the Imam and the Master of Martyrs," the report continued.

State news agency IRIB's Telegram account also reported the news.

"The leader of the nation, the Supreme Leader of the Islamic Revolution of Iran, His Eminence Ayatollah Khamenei, has been martyred," it said.

18d ago / 8:32 PM EDT

Khamenei’s daughter, son-in-law and grandchild were killed in today’s strikes, the semi-official Iranian news agency Fars reported.

Fars, which is linked with the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, also said it has been reported that a daughter-in-law of Khamenei was also killed.

Trump has said Khamenei was also killed, but Iran has not confirmed that. A Fars report appeared to say sources denied the claim.

18d ago / 8:17 PM EDT

Arif Ali / AFP - Getty Images

Pakistani Shiite Muslims hold posters of Khamenei to condemn the U.S.-Israel attack on Iran at a protest in Lahore today.

18d ago / 7:59 PM EDT

The Israel Defense Forces is launching a new wave of attacks targeting Iran's ballistic missile array and aerial defense systems, it said in a message on Telegram tonight.

18d ago / 7:44 PM EDT

U.S. forces fired at hundreds of targets inside Iran as part of the American and Israeli attack on the Islamic republic, two U.S. officials said.

The offensive is being called Operation Epic Fury.

18d ago / 7:26 PM EDT

In Los Angeles, home to the largest Iranian diaspora outside Iran and often referred to as “Tehrangeles,” the mood appeared celebratory today after news broke that U.S. and Israeli strikes reportedly killed Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and other top leaders.

Outside the Wilshire Federal Building in Westwood, dozens gathered carrying Iranian, American and Israeli flags, according to video shared online by community members and various media outlets.

Apu Gomes / AFP via Getty Images

Many in the Iranian diaspora come from families who sought escape from the theocratic regime that took over in 1979 after the Iranian revolution. As conflict among Iran, Israel and the U.S. has continued to escalate in the last year, many Iranians abroad have expressed renewed hope for regime change, while others have expressed concerns over the consequences of foreign intervention.

Chants from people at the rally included “Freedom for Iran,” “No More Ayatollah” and “King Reza Pahlavi,” referring to the son of the shah who ruled Iran until 1979. Pahlavi has become a leading voice among the diaspora in recent months.

18d ago / 7:14 PM EDT

U.S. Central Command said on X that there are no reports of U.S. casualties following strikes by Iran.

"The Iranian regime claims to have killed 50 U.S. service members. LIE," the post said. "There have been no reported U.S. casualties."

CENTCOM said a claim that missiles struck a U.S. Navy ship is also untrue.

"No U.S. Navy ship has been struck. The Armada is fully operational," the post said.

It added that while the "Iranian regime is claiming severe damage at multiple U.S. bases," the "damage to U.S. installations was minimal and has not impacted operations."

18d ago / 7:03 PM EDT

Trump still intends to attend a MAGA Inc. dinner and fundraiser at Mar-a-Lago tonight, press secretary Karoline Leavitt said.

The fundraiser for the Republican Party "is more important than ever," Leavitt told reporters today.

The event will be closed to the media, she said.

18d ago / 6:47 PM EDT

The military of the United Arab Emirates said today it intercepted over 100 ballistic missiles and almost 200 drones in Iranian retaliatory attacks following the U.S. and Israeli strikes.

Smoke from a reported rocket interception over Abu Dhabi on Saturday. Fadel Senna / AFP via Getty Images

The Defense Ministry said that 137 ballistic missiles were launched from Iran and that 132 were destroyed and five fell into the sea, the official Emirates News Agency reported.

The ministry said 209 drones were detected, 194 were intercepted, and 14 fell into the sea, the news agency reported.

Falling debris caused “minor material damage to a number of civilian facilities,” Emirates News Agency wrote.

18d ago / 6:32 PM EDT

Iran’s ambassador to the U.N. accused Trump of lying about the justification of military strikes to “manufacture consent for unlawful war.”

Ambassador Amir-Saeid Iravani also said Iran has the right to self-defense.

Charly Triballeau / AFP via Getty Images

“All bases, facilities and assets of the hostile forces in the region shall be regarded as legitimate military objectives within the framework of Iran’s lawful exercise of self-defense,” he said at an emergency U.N. Security Council meeting tonight.

Iravan said that “hundreds of civilians have been killed and injured” and called the strikes a war crime.

“Israel and U.S. have attacked Iran. They have violated international law and the charter of the United Nations. They must be held accountable,” he said.

18d ago / 6:20 PM EDT

Iran could face political and societal challenges if the regime collapses

02:19

The prospect of Iranians' taking advantage of the military strikes and the reported death of Khamenei — which state media has denied — to overthrow the government is a dangerous one.

There are still police on the streets, and there are still the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps troops on the ground, and more have been deployed since the attacks.

It is very difficult, if not impossible, at this stage for Iranians to go out and try and take control of government buildings or arm themselves.

That could come in the coming days, and that is what Trump and Netanyahu have called for — but actually doing it in Iran is much more challenging.

Iran a large country that has over 90 million people and many ethnic groups.

When Trump calls on the Iranian people to go out onto the streets, he calls on them to risk their lives.

The Iranian government is wounded, and it is looking specifically for people who are trying to seize the moment and overthrow the government.

It's an extraordinarily dangerous time for anyone trying to do what Trump and Netanyahu are asking them to do.

18d ago / 6:07 PM EDT

Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., said he has been in touch with the White House since the strikes began, adding that Trump is assessing the damage with his team in Mar-a-Lago and closely monitoring the situation.

“Help is not on the way anymore. It arrived,” Graham told NBC News. “President Trump made the right call, and the world is a much better place without the ayatollah and his henchmen. And we have a long way to go, but the Iranian people are closer to ending their oppression than ever.”

Trump made the decision after a briefing a few days ago with Adm. Brad Cooper, a top Middle East commander, according to Graham. “Cooper said he was a good listener and asks great questions," Graham said.

Asked about Congress' demanding a war powers vote next week, Graham said he "thinks anybody in Congress who is not celebrating that we’re on the verge of history hates Trump to the point of being crazy. Whether you like Trump or not, if Obama had done this, if Biden had done this, I’d be clapping like a seal.”

He added that he thinks Democrats have “lost their way” for “not supporting the Iranian people. How could you?"

18d ago / 5:52 PM EDT

Secretary of State Marco Rubio will no longer travel to Israel on Monday "due to current circumstances," Dylan Johnson, the assistant secretary of state for global public affairs, said on X today.

Rubio is at Mar-a-Lago and has been briefing Trump, a White House official told NBC News earlier today.

18d ago / 5:42 PM EDT

The Iranian state media outlet Fars News reported that Trump's claim is "baseless," citing "informed sources."

The report, which was shared to Telegram, did not specify which claim from Trump it was referring to. The post included only an image of Trump.

"It is worth noting that Trump has a long record of spreading false and fabricated news," said the report, which NBC News translated from Farsi to English. "Among previous examples of this behavior is his claim about the fall of the city of Mashhad, which was later shown to have no factual basis and to have been merely media sensationalism."

18d ago / 5:40 PM EDT

Iran attacked the Navy’s Fifth Fleet in Bahrain with a one-way drone, and, as of now, there are no reports of U.S. casualties, according to two U.S. officials.

Anadolu via Getty Images

Iran retaliated against the Fifth Fleet, which is headquartered in Juffair at Naval Support Activity Bahrain, shortly after the U.S. and Israeli strikes began.

Iran also retaliated with attacks on U.S. military assets in Kuwait, Jordan, the UAE and Qatar, according to two U.S. officials.

18d ago / 5:37 PM EDT

The U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, Michael Waltz, addressed the Security Council today and commended Trump for his decision to attack Iran.

"This is a moment in history that requires moral clarity, and President Trump has met the moment," Waltz said. "The most fundamental duty of any sovereign government is the protection of its people. Operation Epic Fury is directed towards specific and strategic objectives, to dismantle missile capabilities that threaten allies, to degrade naval assets used to destabilize international waters and to disrupt the machinery that arms proxy militias and to ensure the Iranian regime never, ever can threaten the world with a nuclear weapon."

Waltz said the attack is a matter "of global security, and to that end, the U.S. is taking lawful actions."

Show more

Many have criticized Trump’s joint attack with Israel, including House Democrats and countries such as Russia and China.

Waltz said diplomacy did not work with Iran because "diplomacy cannot succeed where there is no genuine willingness to cease aggression."

18d ago / 5:18 PM EDT

Trump said on Truth Social that the “heavy and pinpoint” bombing in Iran “will continue, uninterrupted throughout the week or, as long as necessary to achieve our objective of PEACE THROUGHOUT THE MIDDLE EAST AND, INDEED, THE WORLD!”

He claimed Iranian security forces and members of the regime’s powerful Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps were already seeking immunity. He urged them to “peacefully merge with the Iranian Patriots.”

“We are hearing that many of their IRGC, Military, and other Security and Police Forces, no longer want to fight, and are looking for Immunity from us,” Trump said in the post. “As I said last night, ‘Now they can have Immunity, later they only get Death!’”

18d ago / 5:15 PM EDT

Protesters gathered today in Times Square to demonstrate against the U.S. and Israeli strikes on Iran.

“Shame!” demonstrators chanted as the crowd grew in the busy commercial district of New York City.

Heather Khalifa / Reuters

Some protesters held signs reading “Solidarity with Iran” and “Stop U.S. and Israeli war,” while one placard declared, “We have nothing to fear except our own billionaires.”

Others waved Palestinian flags, appearing to signal solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza.

18d ago / 5:12 PM EDT

Trump administration officials plan to brief lawmakers tomorrow on the U.S. military attack on Iran, including members of the Senate and House intelligence, armed services and foreign affairs committees, according to two sources with knowledge of the matter.

18d ago / 4:45 PM EDT

Trump says Iran's supreme leader was killed in attack by U.S. and Israel

03:29

Trump announced on Truth Social that Khamenei was killed today after the U.S. and Israel launched the predawn assault on the country he had ruled with an iron grip for 36 years.

"This is not only Justice for the people of Iran, but for all Great Americans, and those people from many Countries throughout the World, that have been killed or mutilated by Khamenei and his gang of bloodthirsty THUGS," Trump posted.

Khamenei has led the Islamic Republic since 1989 as its highest political and religious authority, and he was the central figure in Iran's military and nuclear strategy.

Earlier, Trump addressed reports that Khamenei was killed in airstrikes today, saying, “We feel that that is a correct story.”

He added that “most” of Iran’s senior leadership is “gone,” saying, “The people that make all the decisions, most of them are gone.”

Iranian officials have not confirmed the assertion.

18d ago / 4:37 PM EDT

An Israeli official told NBC News that Israel is 99% sure that Khamenei was killed in an earlier strike and that it is working on the final stages of verification.

Atta Kenare / AFP via Getty Images

A senior U.S. official familiar with the matter said the U.S. believes Khamenei is dead based on communication from Israeli officials. Another senior official briefed on current military operations and intelligence told NBC News that Khamenei is “almost certainly dead.”

18d ago / 4:00 PM EDT

In an interview with NBC News, Trump said "most" Iranian leaders were killed, "not only from the one attack, but from two others."

"There were three attacks," he added. "And you know, you know about the one that was covered, but there were two other attacks, which inflicted very great losses on their leadership."

In response to questions about when those attacks occurred, he said, "Over the last 24 hours."

18d ago / 3:59 PM EDT

The U.S. and Israel’s attack on Iran is disrupting flights across the Middle East and beyond, as regional airspaces began closing and tens of thousands of travelers across the globe were stranded.

Passengers at Rafik Hariri International Airport in Beirut, Lebanon on Saturday. Houssam Shbaro / Anadolu via Getty Images

Israel, the United Arab Emirates and Qatar closed their airspace today. Airspace in southern Syria was also closed, as were skies above Iran, Iraq, Kuwait and Bahrain and Oman’s Muscat International Airport, according to flight tracking website FlightRadar24.

Planes that were en route to cities like Tel Aviv and Dubai early this morning were diverted or returned to where they took off from.

Read the full story here.

18d ago / 3:50 PM EDT

Anti-war demonstrators and counterprotesters gathered in Washington, D.C. after the U.S. and Israel carried out predawn strikes targeting Iran.

One group unfurled a giant banner reading “We the People” — the opening words of the U.S. Constitution — during a “March 4 Democracy” demonstration in the nation’s capital.

Ken Cedeno / AFP - Getty Images

Ken Cedeno / AFP - Getty Images

Nearby, Iranian Americans assembled at the National World War I Memorial to voice support for the military action against Iran.

A group of Iranian Americans gather at the World War I Memorial in Washington, D.C. AMID FARAHI / AFP - Getty Images

18d ago / 3:38 PM EDT

In a phone call with NBC News, Trump said "a large amount of leadership" had been killed in Iran in today's strikes.

"I don't mean like two people," the president added without specifying a number.

Asked about who will replace Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Trump said, "I don’t know, but at some point they’ll be calling me to ask who I’d like."

He added, "I'm only being a little sarcastic when I say that."

18d ago / 3:36 PM EDT

In an interview with NBC News, the president said today's military strikes in Iran are "already a success."

"We’ve inflicted tremendous damage. It would take them years to rebuild," he added.

18d ago / 3:26 PM EDT

Trump on reports of Ayatollah's death: 'We feel that is a correct story'

04:27

In an interview with NBC News, the president addressed reports that Iran's Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei was killed in airstrikes today, saying, "We feel that that is a correct story."

He added that "most" of Iran's senior leadership is "gone," saying, “The people that make all the decisions, most of them are gone.”

18d ago / 3:12 PM EDT

The largest pro-Israel lobbying organization in the U.S., the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, praised Trump and his administration's decision to strike Iran, saying its regime has "posed a grave threat" to the U.S., Israel and the rest of the world for years.

"Iran has American blood on its hands. It has killed more than a thousand American troops, launched repeated rocket and drone attacks against U.S. forces in Iraq and Syria, plotted attacks on American soil, and is responsible for the murder of 241 U.S. servicemembers in the 1983 Marine barracks bombing in Beirut," it said in a statement.

"We commend President Trump’s determination in ensuring that the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism will never acquire a nuclear weapon," AIPAC said.

The group added that the administration and Congress should ensure that Israel has the support and resources necessary to defend itself.

18d ago / 2:59 PM EDT

Trump has been telegraphing possible U.S. strikes on Iran in recent weeks as his administration pursued a diplomatic agreement over Iran's nuclear and missile capabilities.

"We have a big decision to make. You know that. Not easy, not easy. We have a very big decision to make," Trump said yesterday during a visit to Corpus Christi, Texas. "I'd rather do it the peaceful way. But they’re very difficult people, I want to tell you that, they’re very dangerous people, very difficult people."

Show more

He also told reporters that his team was "not exactly happy with the way they negotiated." Asked whether he had been briefed on Iran and whether the situation risked turning into a prolonged conflict in the Middle East, Trump said, “I guess you could say there’s always a risk. You know, when there’s war, there’s a risk in anything both good and bad."

During his State of the Union address earlier this week, Trump suggested it was a problem that the U.S. hadn't heard "those secret words" from Iran, that "we will never have a nuclear weapon."

Last week, Trump warned that "really bad things" would happen if Iran was unable to strike a diplomatic deal.

18d ago / 2:51 PM EDT

In a statement, Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu said the joint U.S.-Israeli attack on Iran today "will lead to true peace," while suggesting that Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, may be dead.

"The plan to destroy Israel does not exist — and there are many signs that even the tyrant Khamenei does not exist either," Netanyahu said.

Netanyahu is the first official to make a comment of this nature regarding Khamenei's status since the strikes began. His remark stopped short of declairing that Khamenei is dead and he did not present evidence to support the assertion. Iran’s foreign minister, Abbas Araghchi, told NBC News earlier that “as far as I know” both Iran’s supreme leader and president were still alive.

Netanyahu also extended his gratitude to President Donald Trump "for his historic leadership."

"I spoke with him again this morning and I welcome the close cooperation between us, a cooperation that has brought the Israel-U.S. alliance to an all-time high — an alliance for peace and an alliance for war," Netanyahu said.

The prime minister reiterated his call to Iranians to "free themselves from the shackles of tyranny."

"Do not sit idly by, because your moment will soon come, the moment when you will be required to take to the streets en masse, to take to the streets to complete the task of overthrowing the regime of horrors that is making your lives miserable," he said.

Netanyahu speaks to Iranian people and says joint operation will bring regional peace

02:49

18d ago / 2:31 PM EDT

Israel’s Coordinator of Government Activities in the Territories, or COGAT, announced that the crossings into the Gaza Strip have been closed amid the military operation against Iran.

COGAT, an Israeli military agency, said in a statement on X that those closures include the Rafah crossing and that "the rotation of humanitarian personnel is postponed at this stage."

It stressed, however, "that the closure of the crossings will have no impact on the humanitarian situation in the Gaza Strip."

"The substantial quantities of food that have entered since the beginning of the ceasefire amount to four times the nutritional needs of the population, according to the UN methodology. Therefore, the existing stock is expected to suffice for an extended period," it said.

The Rafah crossing reopened at the beginning of February, as part of the ceasefire between Israel and Hamas.

18d ago / 2:15 PM EDT

Despite Trump’s assertion that the strikes were necessary to counter an imminent threat from Iran, U.S. officials have not publicly presented evidence that Tehran was on the verge of deploying a nuclear weapon. It does not have a nuclear weapon and its missiles are not believed to be capable of reaching the United States.

Diplomatic talks held in Geneva on Thursday between Iranian negotiators and U.S. special envoys Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner, Trump’s son-in-law, appeared to have gone well. So something doesn’t add up.

Demonstrators protest against the U.S. and Israeli military attacks on Iran in Tehran today. Morteza Nikoubazl / NurPhoto via Getty Images

It is nonetheless a dangerous time. Both Trump and Netanyahu have said they want to carry out regime change, but that is extraordinarily difficult.

The Iranian regime has been historically adept at maintaining control. It has effective intelligence services and is known for cracking down hard, so predicting what will happen is almost impossible.

18d ago / 2:01 PM EDT

For Iranians like Dr. Afrouz Demeri, who grew up in Iran as a member of the Zoroastrian minority community but now resides in the U.S., news of today's attacks on the Islamic Republic was "bittersweet."

Demeri, 45, a doctor and Zumba instructor who fled Iran with her family when she was 9 years old following the Iran-Iraq war in the 1980s, said that as an outspoken critic of the Iranian regime, she was ready to "go dancing" tomorrow over the possibility the strikes could lead to the toppling of Iran's government.

But "there's a bittersweetness obviously, because I was in bombs and I was in war," said Demeri.

"I wish it could be more peaceful," Demeri said. "But I cannot imagine any other way, them leaving and this ending."

Show more

Demeri expressed gratitude to Trump, saying she had not previously identified as a Trump supporter and hadn't been "particularly fond of him." But now, she said, "he actually stuck to his words," adding: "I see why so many Iranians voted for him. I thought they were crazy."

She said that until now, she had thought she would "never be able to go back home" given her criticisms of the Iranian regime.

"I'm excited. I'm crying because I just can't believe this could be it," she said. "I can go back home."

18d ago / 1:51 PM EDT

In a letter to United Nations officials, Araghchi said that "all bases, facilities and assets" of the U.S. and Israel in the region "will be regarded as legitimate military targets."

The letter was specifically addressed to U.N. Secretary-General António Guterres and the president of the U.N. Security Council. Somalia has held the council's rotating presidency since last month.

Araghchi told the U.N. officials that Iran will continue to defend itself following the joint attack from the U.S. and Israel, which he called a violation of the United Nations Charter and "a clear example of armed aggression against the Islamic Republic of Iran."

"The armed forces of the Islamic Republic of Iran will use all necessary defensive capabilities and facilities to confront this criminal aggression and deter hostile actions," Araghchi said.

19d ago / 1:35 PM EDT

U.S. Central Command said in a statement that the military, along with partner forces, began Operation Epic Fury at 1:15 a.m. ET and that the goal was to "dismantle the Iranian regime’s security apparatus, prioritizing locations that posed an imminent threat."

"Targets included Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps command and control facilities, Iranian air defense capabilities, missile and drone launch sites, and military airfields," CENTCOM said.

The strikes were launched from the air, land and sea, it said. The U.S. also used "low-cost one-way attack drones for the first time in combat."

19d ago / 1:21 PM EDT

Pléiades Neo Airbus DS 2026

Satellite imagery captured today shows unusually heavy traffic along major roads in downtown Tehran, with congestion appearing denser that typical for this time of day.

19d ago / 1:15 PM EDT

Top Democrats in Congress are condemning Trump's decision to launch U.S. military actions in Iran, arguing that these strikes require congressional approval.

House Democratic Leader Hakeem Jeffries, D-N.Y., said in a statement that Iran must be confronted "for its human rights violations, nuclear ambitions, support of terrorism and the threat it poses to our allies like Israel and Jordan in the region."

"However, absent exigent circumstances, the Trump administration must seek authorization for the preemptive use of military force that constitutes an act of war," he said.

Show more

Sen. Jack Reed, D-R.I., ranking member on the Senate Armed Services Committee, said in a statement, “Against the clear wishes of the American people, President Trump has thrust our nation into a major war with Iran — one he never made a case for, never sought congressional authority for, and for which he has no endgame." He added that he's calling for an immediate briefing and will use "every authority available to conduct rigorous oversight."

Rep. Adam Smith, D-Wash., ranking member on the Senate Armed Services Committee, said in a statement, "This offensive use of military force against Iran, absent congressional authorization, is contrary to domestic and international law."

Senate Minority Whip Dick Durbin, D-Ill., said in a post on X that he was one of 23 senators who voted against the war in Iraq. "A war in Iran with the goal of regime change could be another long-term military commitment with deadly consequences for thousands of American troops."

Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., a leading progressive, said in a statement, "This war is unlawful. It is unnecessary. And it will be catastrophic." She said she supports the wars powers resolution proposed by Reps. Ro Khanna, D-Calif., and Thomas Massie, R-Ky.

19d ago / 1:13 PM EDT

Israel's military said in a statement that approximately 200 fighter jets completed attacks on Iran since this morning, calling it "the largest ever military flyover in the history of the Israeli Air Force."

The IDF said its fighter jets dropped hundreds of munitions targeting approximately 500 objectives to "severely degraded the offensive capabilities of the Iranian regime — the launch sites in western Iran." Targets included Iran's aerial defense systems and missile launchers, the IDF said.

"The IDF will continue operating to significantly degrade every aspect of the Iranian regime," the Israeli military said.

19d ago / 1:07 PM EDT

Three residential buildings were targeted in Bahrain today, according to the country's Ministry of Interior.

The ministry said the buildings in Manama and Muharraq were damaged following "drone attacks and falling debris from an intercepted missile."

"The first building has been evacuated, and the fire has been brought under control, with one minor case of smoke inhalation treated on site," the ministry said on X. "Firefighting and security operations are underway at the second site, while an assessment of the material damage to the third building caused by falling debris from an intercepted missile is underway."

19d ago / 1:04 PM EDT

Canada supports the United States in "acting to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon and to prevent its regime from further threatening international peace and security," the country's Prime Minister Mark Carney has said in a joint statement with Foreign Minister Anita Anand.

Canada's Prime Minister Mark Carney in Mumbai today. Indranil Mukherjee / AFP - Getty Images

"Canada’s position remains clear: the Islamic Republic of Iran is the principal source of instability and terror throughout the Middle East, has one of the world’s worst human rights records, and must never be allowed to obtain or develop nuclear weapons," the statement read.

The Canadian government urged the protection of all civilians amid the spiraling conflict and said "all possible measures" would be taken to protect nationals and Canadian diplomatic missions across the region.

19d ago / 1:01 PM EDT

At least 201 people have been killed in Iran following airstrikes by the U.S. and Israel, the Iranian Students' News Agency reported, citing the Iranian Red Crescent Society.

Twenty-four of the country's 31 provinces have been targeted, and more than 740 people have been injured, spokesperson Mojtaba Khaledi told the news agency.

19d ago / 12:51 PM EDT

The IDF said in a statement that it has has begun an additional wave of strikes targeting what it called "the Iranian terror regime’s" missile launchers and aerial defense systems in central Iran.

19d ago / 12:39 PM EDT

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is expected to deliver remarks to the media this evening, according to his office.

A specific time for his remarks has not yet been announced.

19d ago / 12:28 PM EDT

picture alliance / picture alliance via Getty Images

Georg Wendt / picture alliance via Getty Images

Participants carry signs bearing photos of their deceased relatives during the “No to the Islamic Republic of Iran!" rally in Hamburg, Germany, today.

19d ago / 12:06 PM EDT

The Los Angeles Police Department has "stepped up patrols near places of worship, community spaces, and other areas of the city," Mayor Karen Bass said.

There are no known credible threats to the city at the time, she added.

“We understand that many Angelenos are affected and deeply concerned, and encourage everyone to voice their views in a peaceful way," Bass said in a statement.

Los Angeles is home to one of the world's largest populations of Iranians outside of Iran, often earning it the nickname "Tehrangeles."

19d ago / 11:54 AM EDT

Michael Herzog, the former Israeli ambassador to the U.S., told NBC News' Kristen Welker, "There’s overwhelming support here in Israel for this operation."

Herzog added, as he was sitting in a bomb shelter, that Israelis expected Iran to retaliate, saying, "Nobody is surprised that they fired back."

The former ambassador also outlined what he thought were the goals of the operation, telling Welker, "The idea is to, among the other things, to degrade the regime, send wave shocks into the Iranian system that will weaken the regime, empower the people, and ultimately hasten the demise of the regime."

Former Israeli ambassador to the U.S. says there is ‘overwhelming support’ in Israel for attacks on Iran

06:26

19d ago / 11:48 AM EDT

The International Atomic Energy Agency said that it "urges restraint" in the Middle East "to avoid any nuclear safety risks to people in the region."

No radiological impact has been reported in the region so far, the agency said.

"The Agency will keep monitoring the situation and informing," it said.

19d ago / 11:46 AM EDT

Videos shared on social media and verified by NBC News show attacks earlier today at the U.S. Navy service center in Bahrain as Iran retaliated following joint U.S. and Israeli strikes.

As of now, there are no reported American casualties. Officials said there is damage to infrastructure, but it’s not clear if the damage is on the base or not.

00:51

19d ago / 11:41 AM EDT

Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent, in a post on social media, says the department is reaffirming its commitment to Trump's "maximum pressure campaign" after the U.S. struck Iran.

In recent weeks, the Treasury has sanctioned dozens of entities and individuals for what it said were evasions of sanctions that have enabled the regime to sell oil and gas and produce weapons.

Bessent said the Treasury would continue "tracking all illegal funds" and work to retrieve those funds "on behalf of the Iranian people."

19d ago / 11:32 AM EDT

The death toll from what Iran says was an attack on a girls school in the province of Minab has risen to 85, according to state news agency IRIB News.

NBC News has not independently verified the claims.

Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian condemned what he called a “cowardly attack” on Shajareh Tayyebeh elementary school, adding that it had "caused deep pain to the hearts of the Iranian nation and all free people of the world."

"This brutal act is another dark page in the record of countless crimes by aggressors against this land and will never be erased from the historical memory of our nation," Pezeshkian said in the statement.

19d ago / 11:20 AM EDT

New, loud explosions can be heard in the Iranian capital.

The massive blasts come hours after the U.S. and Israel first launched their joint attack on the country.

19d ago / 11:11 AM EDT

President Donald Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu spoke after conducting their joint attack on Iran today.

Netanyahu's office shared a photo of the Israeli leader on the phone. The White House confirmed that the pair spoke today about the strikes, with press secretary Karoline Leavitt saying that Trump had monitored the situation overnight at Mar-a-Lago alongside members of his national security team.

Trump and his national security team will continue to closely monitor the situation throughout the day, Leavitt said.

Secretary of State Marco Rubio is at Mar-a-Lago and has been continually briefing the president, a White House official told NBC News.

19d ago / 11:06 AM EDT

Former Defense Secretary Mark Esper, who served in Trump's first administration, told NBC News' Kristen Welker, "I think the president and his team made the right call" in initiating military action against Iran.

Esper added that the "endgame" for military operations "looks a little fuzzy right now."

"We’ve just got to see how this plays out," he said.

The former defense secretary also said the president and his senior advisers would "benefit" from briefing Congress and the American people on the strategy behind today's military action.

Show more

"I think every president benefits by going before the American people and explaining what we’re doing, why we’re doing it, how long it will take, what the pros are, the cons, the risks," Esper said.

"So, I think the more he could speak to that, to the American people directly ... but also to Congress, both the House and Senate and, and then, of course, have his members of his Cabinet go out and do the same," he added.

Former Trump defense secretary: Administration 'made the right call' on Iran strikes

10:03

19d ago / 11:04 AM EDT

Many people in Israel are currently sheltering in designated areas like one I'm in right now in Tel Aviv.

Even from inside this fortified room, you can still hear the outgoing air defense systems intercepting some Iranian missiles, though there have so far been no confirmed Israeli casualties.

We have heard of one injury in Tel Aviv and one in Haifa.

But so far, considering the amount of firepower that the Iranians have thrown at this tiny state, there is very little to show in the way of casualties.

19d ago / 10:53 AM EDT

The United Nations Security Council called a meeting for later today following the joint attack on Iran by the U.S. and Israel.

The meeting will take place at 4 p.m. E.T.

In a Telegram statement, Russia's Foreign Ministry condemned the attack on Iran as “a preplanned and unprovoked act of armed aggression against a sovereign and independent U.N. member state,” The Associated Press reported.

China, another Security Council member, said it was highly concerned and called for an end to military action.

19d ago / 10:43 AM EDT

We knew that Israeli warplanes targeted the Iranian leadership in that initial wave of strikes but now have some more detail.

Israel targeted three sites where senior Iranian officials were gathering, an Israeli military official tells NBC News.

The official said “several senior figures essential to the management of the campaign and the regime’s governance were eliminated” but gave no details on whether Supreme Leader Ayatollah Khamenei was among them.

Iran’s foreign minister, Abbas Araghchi, told NBC News earlier that “as far as I know” both Iran’s supreme leader and president were still alive. He conceded that several Iranian commanders may have been killed but said “this is not a big problem.”

The Israeli military official said the U.S. and Israel had worked jointly “for thousands of hours” to develop a bank of targets in Iran.

19d ago / 10:36 AM EDT

New satellite imagery, captured by Airbus, shows multiple structures within a secure Tehran compound that appear heavily damaged or destroyed.

The site is widely understood to function as the official residence and administrative compound of Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.

Airbus 2026

It is unclear where Khamenei was when the U.S. and Israel attacked this morning, with conflicting reports on his whereabouts for weeks.

Iran's foreign minister told NBC News earlier that as far as he knows, the supreme leader is alive.

19d ago / 10:31 AM EDT

The New York Police Department says it is beefing up security at sensitive locations around New York in response to the conflict in Iran.

"As is our protocol and out of an abundance of caution, we will be enhancing patrols to sensitive locations throughout the city, including diplomatic, cultural, religious, and other relevant sites," the department said in a post on X.

There are no plots or specific targeted threats that U.S. counterterrorism officials are tracking this morning as a result of the strikes against Iran overnight, three senior law enforcement officials told NBC News.

The situation can change as events unfold in the region, and the threat has been closely examined in recent days by the FBI and others, the officials say.

The officials say that interests closer to Iran in the Middle East and Europe face a more imminent threat because of their proximity to the regime’s ability to strike out.

19d ago / 10:27 AM EDT

The group of congressional leaders known as the Gang of Eight was briefed earlier this week that taking military action agaist Iran "may become necessary" to protect American citizens and troops in Iran, House Speaker Mike Johnson said in an X post this morning.

The Gang of Eight refers to eight congressional leaders from both parties who are briefed on classified intelligence matters by the executive branch. Currently, the group includes Johnson, R-La.; Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y.; Senate Majority Leader John Thune, R-S.D.; House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries, D-N.Y.; House Intelligence Committee Chair Rick Crawford, R-Ark.; House Intelligence Committee ranking member Jim Himes, D-Conn.; Senate Intelligence Committee Chair Tom Cotton, R-Ark; and Senate Intelligence Committee Vice Chair Mark Warner, D-Va.

Secretary of State Marco Rubio called each member of the Gang of Eight to give them a heads up about the imminent operation, but was unable to reach one, according to to a White House official and a State Department official. He had briefed the Gang of Eight for an hour on Tuesday, ahead of the State of the Union.

Johnson said missiles launched on Iran by the U.S. and Israel today are the result of the country “facing the severe consequences of its evil actions.”

“President Trump and the Administration have made every effort to pursue peaceful and diplomatic solutions in response to the Iranian regime’s sustained nuclear ambitions and development, terrorism, and the murder of Americans—and even their own people,” Johnson wrote on X.

19d ago / 10:23 AM EDT

Rep. Don Bacon, R-Neb., told NBC News that military action in Iran is overdue and that the nation's deadly crackdown on protesters was "the straw that broke the camel's back."

"Iran has been waging war against us since 1979," Bacon told "Meet the Press" moderator Kristen Welker, adding that after the crackdown, "I think, from a humanitarian point of view, the free world's got to stand up and say, 'This is unacceptable.'"

Bacon acknowledged that the joint U.S.-Israeli operation is "high risk," telling NBC News, "I hope it’s successful, and I pray for our men and women in uniform that, you know, that we don’t have casualties."

"It’s high risk," he added, but said, "I think it’s overdue."

Rep. Bacon: ‘The world cannot coexist with the ayatollah and his regime’

09:26

19d ago / 10:22 AM EDT

Kuwait International Airport was targeted by a drone, resulting in minor injuries to "a number of employees," according to Kuwait's Directorate General of Civil Aviation.

The attack also caused some damage to the airport's Terminal 1, according to the department.

"The authority confirmed that the situation is under complete control by the relevant authorities in the country, and that the safety of travelers and workers is a top priority," the department said in a statement on X.

19d ago / 10:15 AM EDT

Atta Kenare / AFP - Getty Images

Atta Kenare / AFP - Getty Images

Atta Kenare / AFP - Getty Images

Long lines of traffic were seen along a highway in Tehran today, as well as Iranians crowding grocery stores to pick up essential items. Motorcyclists were also seen lining up to get gas in the Iranian capital.

19d ago / 10:12 AM EDT

Sen. Andy Kim, D-N.J., today called for Congress to return to Washington to vote on a war powers resolution that would authorize or rebuke today's military action in Iran, which the senator called "apalling."

"I believe that we need to have Congress reassemble as soon as possible this weekend to be able to vote on the war powers resolution to show that this is not something that the American people want," Kim told NBC News' Kristen Welker.

Shortly after Kim spoke with NBC News, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., also called on Congress to vote on a war powers resolution.

"The administration must brief Congress, including an immediate all senators classified briefing and in public testimony, to answer these vital questions. The Senate should quickly return to session and reassert its constitutional duty by passing our resolution to enforce the War Powers Act," Schumer said in a statement.

Kim accused the president of starting "a protracted, open-ended conflict ... with the objective of regime change."

"This is giving us nightmares and flashbacks" to the Iraq War in the 2000s, the New Jersey senator added.

"Right now, the American people do not buy and do not support what this president is doing," he said.

19d ago / 10:11 AM EDT

Expect oil prices to rise after the U.S. and Israel struck Iran, industry analysts say.

Iran is the fourth largest crude oil producing country in OPEC, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. While Iran’s oil output is estimated to be only around 3 million barrels per day, less than 5% of global output, it has major influence over the Strait of Hormuz.

About 20 million barrels per day of crude oil and refined energy products pass through that key artery, longtime oil industry expert Andy Lipow told NBC News last year. Total world oil demand is about 103 million barrels a day.

Long lines formed at gas stations across Beirut following strikes by the U.S. and Israel. Houssam Shbaro / Anadolu via Getty Images

Today, Lipow predicted in a note “that oil prices could rise $3 to $5 per barrel, perhaps more, when trading re-opens Sunday night.” Global energy and commodity markets reopen Sunday at 6 p.m. ET.

Even before the latest events in Iran, the price of U.S. crude oil has risen almost 18% since the start of the year.

How will that affect prices at the pump? Retail gas prices move about 2.4 cents per gallon for every $1 move in the price of oil.

19d ago / 10:10 AM EDT

Iran’s foreign minister disputed President Donald Trump’s claim that the Islamic Republic is building missiles capable of hitting the U.S.

In his interview with NBC News, Abbas Araghchi said Iran had intentionally kept the range of its missiles below 2,000 km, around 1,250 miles.

“We don’t want to do that because we don’t have any hostility against, you know, the United States people and, you know, or Europeans,” he said, adding that it had built weapons “in order to defend ourselves against our enemies.”

“Our missile missiles proved to be the most reliable means of defense for us. So obviously we cannot compromise on our missiles, because our security depends on them” Araghchi said.

In his State of the Union address, Trump said Iran was working to develop missiles that could “soon” be able to strike the U.S.

19d ago / 10:07 AM EDT

Changing the Iranian regime is “mission impossible,” the country’s foreign minister said in his interview with NBC News.

“You cannot do regime change while millions of people are supporting the so-called regime,” he said, adding that millions of people came out onto the streets in cities across the country to mark the recent anniversary of the 1979 revolution.

“Yes, there are also people who are complaining, but there are strong supporters of the regime,” he said. “And then we have a very well-established political structure.”

Iran's government had tolerated peaceful protests earlier this year, he said. But without providing evidence, he said "armed elements" supported by Israel had "started shooting at our police and security forces, so it was a completely different story." The regime had no choice but to respond, he added.

Thousands of people are thought to have been killed during the crackdown on the protests and many more have been arrested.

19d ago / 10:05 AM EDT

Iran’s internet connection to the outside world, already severely reduced in the wake of protests last month, has slowed to a trickle in the wake of strikes on the country.

Doug Madory, the director of internet analysis at Kentik, a company that monitors global connectivity, told NBC News that Iran is “99% down” with “a tiny trickle” still connecting.

Iran at times directs its internet providers to shut off the country’s global internet connections, particularly when there is unrest. It most recently conducted a weekslong blackout starting on Jan. 8, from which it still had not fully restored access.

19d ago / 10:04 AM EDT

Jeremy Bash, who served as chief of staff for the CIA and the Department of Defense during the Obama administration, told NBC News that the scale of today's attack on Iran "is much larger than we've seen before from the Trump administration."

Bash, speaking to "Meet the Press" moderator Kristen Welker, compared today's operation to one earlier this year in Venezuela that led to the capture of that country's president, Nicolas Maduro.

"Those were largely 'one and done,'" Bash said. "And this is an extensive, coordinated, probably multiweek campaign."

19d ago / 10:04 AM EDT

Residents of the United Arab Emirates reported hearing ongoing explosions across the country.

The explosions could be heard in Dubai across its Barsha and Motor City neighborhoods, residents told NBC News. Missiles could be seen in the sky from the morning throughout the evening local time (late morning ET), and windows quivered as the airstrikes passed.

A projectile seen in Dubai today. AFP via Getty Images

Iran said it retaliated against the U.S. and Israel's joint attack by targeting U.S. bases across the region, including in the UAE.The UAE's Ministry of Defense said it intercepted a number of Iranian missiles in Dubai and Abu Dhabi, and that none resulted in casualties.

The ministry called the attacks "a flagrant violation of national sovereignty and international law," adding that it will take "all necessary measures to protect its territory and citizens, and to ensure the preservation of its sovereignty, security and stability."

19d ago / 10:03 AM EDT

The U.K., Germany and France condemned Iranian strikes on countries across the Middle East, releasing a joint statement telling Iran to stop its attacks in the region.

“We condemn Iranian attacks on countries in the region in the strongest terms,” French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Friedrich Merz and British Prime Minister Keir Starmer said.

“We call for a resumption of negotiations and urge the Iranian leadership to seek a negotiated solution. Ultimately, the Iranian people must be allowed to determine their future,” the statement added.

The three leaders urged Iran to resume negotiations, saying they had consistently backed calls for the nation to end its nuclear program.

“We reiterate our commitment to regional stability and to the protection of civilian life,” the statement said.

19d ago / 10:03 AM EDT

The joint U.S.-Israeli attack on Iran today came as many Muslims have been observing the holy month of Ramadan.

Ramadan, the ninth and most sacred month of the Islamic calendar, is when Muslims believe the first verses of the Quran were revealed to Prophet Muhammad. Muslims observe the spiritual month by fasting from sunrise to sunset, performing prayers in congregation and giving charity to those less fortunate. Iran is a Muslim-majority nation.

The sacred month, which is based on the Islamic lunar calendar, started last week.

The strikes began hours after Iranian citizens observing Ramadan awoke this morning to eat suhoor, a meal to prepare for the fast, and pray the sunrise prayer.

Iran is a majority Shia Muslim country, with Shias representing over 10% of the world’s 1.8 billion Muslims.

19d ago / 10:00 AM EDT

United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres condemned the U.S. and Israel's military attack on Iran and the Iranian response.

“The use of force by the United States and Israel against Iran, and the subsequent retaliation by Iran across the region, undermine international peace and security,” Guterres said in a statement posted to X.

19d ago / 9:48 AM EDT

NBC News spoke live to Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi in the wake of the joint strikes by the U.S. and Israel.

You can watch the full interview here.

29:20

19d ago / 9:40 AM EDT

Iran is attacking U.S. military facilities in the Middle East region and not "Americans in their land," Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said in his exclusive interview with NBC News.

He added that Tehran was interested in de-escalation and ready to talk once the joint U.S.-Israeli strikes end.

Iran's FM: Trump's call for regime change is ‘mission impossible’

08:12

“There is no communication right now,” Araghchi said. “But if Americans wants to talk to us. They know how they can contact me. We are certainly interested for de-escalation.”

“This is a war of choice by the United States, and they have to pay for that,” he added. “But as far as we are concerned, we don’t want war.”

Show more

American forces were attacking our people in our cities, he said, “but this is not what we are going to do. We are attacking the Americans bases, military bases in the region, and military installations and facilities, and this is only as an act of self-defense.”

“We are not, we are not the one who starts this aggression,” he added. “It was the United States and Israel who started this aggression. So there is no limit for us to defend ourselves, but once the aggression is stopped, we would also stop our self-defense.”

19d ago / 9:27 AM EDT

Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, is still alive "as far as I know," the country's foreign minister has said in an exclusive interview with NBC News.

Speaking live from Tehran after the joint strikes by the U.S. and Israel, Abbas Araghchi said two commanders had died but senior officials in the regime had survived including the head of the judiciary and the parliament speaker.

“All high ranking officials are alive,” he said. “So everybody is now in its position, and we are handling this situation, and everything is fine.”

NBC News has not independently verified the claims.

Araghchi also criticized the U.S. and Israel for launching the attack despite ongoing nuclear negotiations.

Iranian foreign minister: Iran's supreme leader is still alive 'as far as I know’

01:55

19d ago / 9:10 AM EDT

Oman's Foreign Minister Badr al-Busaidi said he was "dismayed" that "active and serious negotiations" had "yet again been undermined."

A key go-between in talks, he had initially expressed optimism around negotiations between the U.S. and Iran earlier this week.

"Neither the interests of the United States nor the cause of global peace are well served by this," al-Busaidi said in a post on X, urging Washington not to "get sucked in further."

Just a day ago, after meeting with Vice President JD Vance, al-Busaidi had expressed optimism over the "progress achieved so far" in indirect talks between Washington and Tehran, which have been brokered by Oman.

"Peace is within our reach," he had said in a post on X.

19d ago / 9:01 AM EDT

Obviously, this is a developing situation, but what is very different this time, and is very apparent, is that this quickly has become a regional conflict.

Previous rounds of violence between Israel and Iran have for the most part involved those two nations, although the U.S. got involved last time around because it was the only nation with weaponry capable of striking Iran’s nuclear facilities buried deep under mountains.

Today Iran has launched drones and missiles not only at Israel, but also at U.S. military installations in Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, Jordan, the United Arab Emirates and Iraq.

It went regional immediately and it puts Iran in a difficult position, because now it is at conflict with pretty much all of its neighbors.

19d ago / 8:59 AM EDT

"Dozens of innocent children" were killed in a strike on a school for girls in Iran's southern county of Minab, Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi has said.

The facility, which he said was a primary school for girls, was "bombed in broad daylight, when packed with young pupils," Araghchi said in a post on X, sharing a photo of dozens of people surrounding a heavily damaged building with smoke rising from the facility.

His comments came after semiofficial Iranian news agency Mehr news and others reported a strike at a school killing more than 50 people and injuring dozens more.

The Israeli military’s situation room said earlier that it was looking into the reports of fatalities at the school. Asked for an update, it said it had none to provide. NBC News was not immediately able to confirm reports of the strike or the associated death toll.

19d ago / 8:48 AM EDT

An incoming projectile exploded over the water in the bay of Haifa, off the coast of the northern Israeli city today.

Jalaa Marey / AFP via Getty Images

19d ago / 8:43 AM EDT

French President Emmanuel Macron has warned that the "outbreak of war between the United States, Israel and Iran" will carry "grave consequences for international peace and security" as he called for a halt to further escalation.

"At this decisive moment, every measure is being taken to ensure the security of our national territory, our citizens, and our interests in the Middle East," Macron said in a post on X today. He added that France stood at the ready to deploy "the necessary resources to protect its closest partners, should they request it."

Still, Macron warned that the "ongoing escalation was dangerous for all" and "must stop." He added that France was calling for an urgent meeting of the United Nations Security Council in the wake of the hostilities.

"The Iranian regime must understand that it now has no other option but to engage in good faith in negotiations to end its nuclear and ballistic programs, as well as its regional destabilization activities," Macron said. He added that the Iranian people "must also be able to freely build their future."

19d ago / 8:28 AM EDT

President Trump said his main concern was “freedom” for the Iranian people, just hours after launching joint strikes with Israel on the nation.

“All I want is freedom for the people,” Trump said in a brief phone interview with The Washington Post early this morning, shortly after 4 a.m.

“I want a safe nation, and that’s what we’re going to have,” the president said when asked what he hoped would be the result of the military action and a push for regime change in Iran.

In a video statement earlier today, Trump said his objective is "to defend the American people by eliminating imminent threats from the Iranian regime.”

19d ago / 8:00 AM EDT

A text message sent out to cellphones in Iran today said that Iran will deliver a "more forceful" response than the 12-day war with the U.S. and Israel last summer.

Israelis take shelter in Ashkelon, close to the southern border with Gaza, after missiles were launched from Iran today. Amir Cohen / Reuters

"Iran’s response this time will be faster, more forceful, and more extensive than the 12-day war, the text message, which was verified by NBC News, said. It added that "Iran’s armed forces have begun a comprehensive response against American and Israeli bases."

19d ago / 7:58 AM EDT

Cars clogged many of Tehran's roads as residents of the Iranian capital rushed to pick up their children at school or left work early to head home.

The government asked those who were already home to stay put and avoid going out. Long lines could be seen at bakeries and gas stations, as people stocked up on essentials.

19d ago / 7:39 AM EDT

Dozens of people were killed and scores more injured in an Israeli strike on a school in Iran's southern county of Minab, the semi-official Iranian news agency Mehr news has reported.

The Israeli military's situation room said it was looking into the reports of fatalities at the school. NBC News was not immediately able to confirm reports of the strike or the associated death toll.

This image taken from Iranian state television shows what it says is the site of deadly strike on an elementary school in Minab, southern Iran today. Alex Mita / IRIB TV via AFP - Getty Images

The special governor of Minab County said that at least 51 people had been killed and at least 60 injured in the attack, which was said to have hit a girls' primary school, Mehr reported.

Semi-official news agency Tasnim also reported on the attack, citing an initial death toll of more than 20.

19d ago / 7:34 AM EDT

Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi contacted the foreign ministers of Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Kuwait, Bahrain and Iraq and warned them not to let the U.S. and Israel use their territory to attack Iran or they could become "legitimate targets."

Araghchi "reminded all regional states of their responsibility to prevent the United States and the Zionist regime from using their facilities and territories to carry out aggressive operations against Iran," according to a report posted on Telegram by the semiofficial Mehr news agency.

He said that Iran's armed forces "will regard the origin and source of aggressive operations" as well as "any action aimed at confronting Iran’s defensive operations, as legitimate targets."

Araghchi said the war is "not only against the Iranian nation but against all countries of the region," adding that "all Muslim nations and regional governments bear a historic responsibility to act," according to the report.

19d ago / 7:14 AM EDT

The Red Cross said that military escalation in the Middle East risked “igniting a dangerous chain reaction across the region, with potentially devastating consequences for civilians.”

Mirjana Spoljaric, president of the International Committee of the Red Cross, said in a statement that “upholding the rules of war is an obligation and not a choice.”

An image not verified by NBC News appears to show smoke rising over Abu Dhabi from the site of an unconfirmed Iranian missile strike today. AFP - Getty Images

“Humanitarian aid cannot match the pace or scale of suffering caused by continuous conflict,” she said. “Political will is needed to achieve peace and prevent further death and destruction.”

Spoljaric added that civilian infrastructure such as hospitals, homes and schools “must be spared from attack.”

19d ago / 7:04 AM EDT

Russia has condemned the U.S. and Israel's strikes on Iran this morning as an "unprovoked act of armed aggression against a sovereign state."

In a statement from its foreign ministry, Moscow, which just days ago marked the fourth year of its war in Ukraine, said the scale of preparations ahead of the attack left "no doubt that this was a pre-planned and unprovoked act of armed aggression" against an "independent UN member state."

It said the attacks violated the "fundamental principles and norms of international law."

The foreign ministry said it was "equally condemnable" that the attacks were being carried out "under the guise of renewed negotiations, ostensibly aimed at ensuring long-term normalisation of the situation around the Islamic Republic, and despite signals conveyed to the Russian side that the Israelis have no interest in a military confrontation with the Iranians."

19d ago / 6:54 AM EDT

Qatar's transportation ministry has called on all maritime vessels to "temporarily suspend maritime navigation" as a precautionary measure amid the hostilities in the region.

It urged owners of all maritime vessels, "be them individuals or companies," to heed its warning.

It said the ministry would continue to follow up and coordinate with all relevant bodies and would announce further updates as they become available.

19d ago / 6:44 AM EDT

Saudi Arabia has condemned what it described as "brutal Iranian aggression" after Tehran launched retaliatory strikes targeting U.S. military bases across the region.

A statement said the Iranian strikes marked a "blatant violation of the sovereignty of the United Arab Emirates, the Kingdom of Bahrain, the State of Qatar, the State of Kuwait and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan."

It affirmed its "full solidarity and support for the sisterly countries" and said it was placing "all its capabilities at their disposal to support them in all measures they take."

It further warned of the "grave consequences of the continued violation of the sovereignty of states and the principles of international law."

19d ago / 6:39 AM EDT

Multiple eyewitnesses have said they heard explosions around both of the major cities in the United Arab Emirates, Dubai and Abu Dhabi. One described three “extremely loud pops overhead” that sounded like three missile interception bursts.

The UAE’s defense ministry announced the “successful interception of several Iranian missiles targeting the country,” but it said one person was killed by debris falling on a residential area in Abu Dhabi.

An Iranian woman looks to the sky from a rooftop in Tehran this morning. Getty Images

In Bahrain, an official said Iranian strikes have targeted the area where the U.S. Fifth Fleet is stationed. The USS Abraham Lincoln was in port there a few weeks ago before it repositioned to the Arabian Sea take part in this operation.

In Qatar, the government said it had intercepted Iranian strikes and air defenses have also dealt with attacks in Kuwait.

Show more

Governments are already urging caution, with the UAE warning of a “dangerous escalation” that threatens “the security and safety of civilians and undermines stability.”

The country “reserves its full right to respond to this escalation and take all necessary measures to protect its territory, its people, and its residents,” it said in a statement.

19d ago / 6:32 AM EDT

Kuwait has warned that it has the "right to defend itself" after Iranian missiles targeted its territory this morning in Tehran's retaliatory strikes aimed at U.S. military bases across the region.

In a statement, Kuwait's Ministry of Foreign Affairs condemned the Iranian strikes as a "flagrant violation of the sovereignty of the State of Kuwait and its airspace, as well as international law and the United Nations Charter."

It sought to affirm Kuwait's "full and legitimate right to defend itself," citing Article 51 of the United Nations Charter "in response to this brazen aggression, in a manner commensurate with the scale and nature of this violation."

It noted that Kuwait's defense systems "successfully repelled" the attacks, but warned that the "continuation of these aggressive military actions witnessed in the region" would "undermine regional security and stability."

19d ago / 6:25 AM EDT

Ahmad Gharabli / AFP - Getty Images

Rocket trails from Israel’s Iron Dome missile defence system are seen over the skies of Jerusalem this morning. Similar scenes were captured in the clear blue skies over Tel Aviv as Iran fired missiles in retaliation to the joint U.S.-Israeli military action.

Jack Guez / AFP - Getty Images

19d ago / 6:21 AM EDT

In his speech announcing the U.S. military attack, President Donald Trump said the objective was to eliminate “imminent threats” posed by Iran. But he did not say that Iran was close to developing a nuclear weapon or that it had resumed uranium enrichment.

The president did repeat a claim from his State of the Union address on Tuesday that Iran would “soon” have long-range missiles that could reach the United States. But last year, the Defense Intelligence Agency said Iran could develop an ICBM by 2035 if it chose to take that route.

19d ago / 6:13 AM EDT

As of now, there are no reported American casualties from Iran’s retaliatory strikes against U.S. military facilities in Bahrain, Kuwait, Jordan, UAE and Qatar, according to two U.S. officials.

The officials said there is damage to infrastructure in Bahrain after Iran struck the Fifth Fleet, but it’s not clear if the damage is on the base or not.

The Navy’s Fifth Fleet is headquartered in Juffair at Naval Support Activity (NSA) Bahrain.

The U.S. officials stressed that this assessment is just *as of now* and noted the situation is fluid. They said the U.S. and Israeli strikes will continue, and the U.S. expects Iran will continue to retaliate.

19d ago / 6:09 AM EDT

In his State of the Union address, President Donald Trump seemed to offer another rationale for possible military action against Iran, saying it was working to develop missiles that could “soon” be able to strike the U.S.

Trump makes claims about Iran’s weapons capabilities during State of the Union

03:22

It was the first time the president or any other U.S. official has portrayed Iran as poised to develop an intercontinental ballistic missile, or ICBM. Until now, U.S. intelligence agencies and European governments have said Iran could eventually build an ICBM under the cover of its military space program if it chose to.

But U.S. intelligence and military commanders have not publicly warned of an imminent threat due to a possible ICBM program.

Read the full story here.

19d ago / 6:02 AM EDT

Stills from video footage obtained by AFP, not verified by NBC News, appear to show the fallout from strikes in Tehran this morning.

AFP - Getty Images

AFP - Getty Images

The United States and Israel launched strikes against Iran, sparking fears of regional war with explosions reported across the Middle East as the Islamic Republic retaliated with barrages of missiles.

19d ago / 6:00 AM EDT

As negotiations between the U.S. and Iran this past week appeared "close to success," Israel "intervened to preempt diplomacy," a senior Middle East diplomat with direct knowledge of the recent talks told NBC News.

“Yet again when negotiations get close to success Israel has intervened," the diplomat said, adding: "Yet again an Israeli tail is wagging the American dog.”

President Donald Trump has said that the U.S. "sought repeatedly to make a deal" to curtail Iran's nuclear program in negotiations with Tehran. "We tried," he said in a statement released on Truth Social, with the U.S. and Israel launching strikes on Iran early this morning.

In his own statement this morning, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Iran "must not be armed with nuclear weapons that would allow it to threaten all of humanity." He said the joint military action would "create the conditions for the courageous Iranian people to take their destiny into their own hands" in the wake of nationwide unrest.

19d ago / 5:55 AM EDT

Gen. Abolfazl Shekarchi, the spokesman for Iran’s Armed Forces, said in an interview with state TV that any military base that is used to assist the U.S. and Israel in attacking Iran will be targeted.

19d ago / 5:52 AM EDT

Israel and the United States have both made clear that their joint offensive is aimed at removing the Iranian regime — a mission that the U.S. has tried, tested and failed in the past in the Middle East with deadly, destabilizing results.

President Donald Trump called on Iranians to be prepared to wrest control of the regime once the dust settles, a message echoed by Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu who said in a statement that the attacks would “create the conditions for the courageous Iranian people to take their destiny into their own hands.”

Neither leader explicitly stated that they would put boots on the ground but Trump did warn to anticipate American casualties.

U.S. Marines pull down a statue of Saddam Hussein in the centre of Baghdad in 2003. Sean Smith / Guardian via Getty Images file

That foreshadowing will remind Middle East watchers of the drumbeats that preceded America’s invasion of Iraq — a sprawling operation that began with impressive “shock and awe” airstrikes over the skies of Baghdad but ended in a years-long quagmire, the deaths of nearly 5,000 American servicemen and hundreds of thousands of Iraqis.

Show more

The war in Afghanistan also ended with an outright loss — the United States withdrew in August 2021, after a nearly 20-year occupation.

Iran is much larger than Iraq — it has about twice the population and three times the geographic area.

And Netanyahu’s statement inadvertantly made the challenge clear: He called on ethnic groups like the “Kurds, the Azeris, the Balochis and the Ahwazis” to “throw off the yoke of tyranny.”

But in Iraq, which also hosts a large population of ethnic and religious minorities, much of the fighting ended up being internecine as Sunnis, Shiites and Kurds fought amongst each other as they vied for power.

19d ago / 5:47 AM EDT

The Basij militia, which is overseen by the Islamic Revolutionary Guards, the most powerful military force in Iran, began patrols across all 22 districts of Tehran, according to the semiofficial Fars news agency.

The Basij played a key role in the violent crackdown against protestors last month, which left thousands dead, and deployment across the capital could be an indication of government concerns about internal unrest.

"The plan has been implemented with the aim of serving the public and increasing citizen participation in maintaining security," the report said.

19d ago / 5:43 AM EDT

At least one person has been killed in Abu Dhabi, the United Arab Emirates has confirmed, as states in the region intercepted Iranian missiles targeting U.S. military facilities across the Middle East.

The UAE's defense ministry said in a post on X that several missiles targeting the country had been successfully intercepted following a "blatant attack today by Iranian ballistic missiles."

It said one person was killed after falling debris fell on a residential area in Abu Dhabi, also causing "some material damage."

Missile interceptions were also reported in Qatar, Kuwait and Jordan.

19d ago / 5:36 AM EDT

So far in the military operation in Iran, Israel targeted Iranian leaders, while the U.S. targeted Iran's ballistic missile and nuclear programs, according to two U.S. officials.

19d ago / 5:27 AM EDT

The U.S. built up a massive military presence in the Middle East while holding nuclear talks with the Islamic Republic. In addition, it maintains military bases in allied nations throughout the region.

19d ago / 5:13 AM EDT

Iran’s Supreme National Security Council said in a statement that the armed forces will give a “crushing response” to the U.S. and Israeli attacks.

“The enemy believes that the resilient Iranian nation will surrender to their petty demands through such cowardly actions,” the council said in a statement published by the semiofficial Mehr news agency.

“The armed forces of the Islamic Republic of Iran have begun a crushing response to their malicious actions and will continuously keep the dear public informed,” the statement added.

The statement asked people to avoid crowding in shopping centers and noted that schools and universities will be closed until further notice, while banks will remain open and government offices will operate at 50% capacity.

19d ago / 5:10 AM EDT

The immediate political fallout from the strikes in Iran is not dividing evenly along party lines, with some Republicans voicing concerns about the lack of Congressional authorization for military action in the Middle East.

Republican Rep. Thomas Massie, R-Ky., called the attack an act of war “unauthorized by congress.”

Explosions in the Iranian capital of Tehran this morning. AP

But Senator John Fetterman, D-Pa, said Trump had been “willing to do what’s right and necessary to produce real peace in the region.”

“God bless the United States, our great military, and Israel,” he added.

“God bless @POTUS for planning and now executing Operation Epic Fury, making America more safe and eventually more prosperous,” Senator Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., said on X. “My mind is racing with the thought that the murderous ayatollah’s regime in Iran will soon be no more.”

In a separate post on X, he added: “God bless President Trump, our military and our allies in Israel.”

How both sides of Congress are reacting to the strikes in Iran

02:08

19d ago / 5:01 AM EDT

President Donald Trump has called on the Iranian people to topple the regime once the U.S. and Israeli air strikes are finished, but his administration has not explained how it expects this to happen or what might replace it.

Although the regime is deeply unpopular, there is no organized, coherent political opposition on the ground.

Reza Pahlavi, the son of the deposed Shah living in the United States, has said he is ready to be the leader of a democratic transition.

It is not clear how much support Pahlavi has on the ground in Iran. He also has not secured a clear endorsement from Trump, who has called him a “nice guy” but questioned whether he could be a future leader.

19d ago / 4:54 AM EDT

Iranian state television has reported Iranian attacks on four U.S. bases across the region.

"The Al Udeid Air Base in Qatar, Al Salem base in Kuwait, Al Dhafra Air Base in the United Arab Emirates, and the U.S. Fifth Fleet base in Bahrain have been targeted by Iranian missile strikes," the state TV report said.

19d ago / 4:50 AM EDT

Jaafar Ashtiyeh / AFP - Getty Images

People rush to fill their tanks at a gas station in Nablus, in the Israeli-occupied West Bank on Saturday, after Israel and the U.S. launched strikes on Iran.

19d ago / 4:37 AM EDT

A U.S. official says Iran is retaliating against multiple U.S. military facilities across the Middle East.

Iran retaliates against multiple U.S. military facilities in Middle East

03:58

19d ago / 4:35 AM EDT

Iran's President Masoud Pezeshkian "is in full health and safety," according to to Mohammad Jafar Ghaem-Panah, the Executive Vice President and acting head of the presidential office.

Ghaem-Panah made the announcement on X where he called the attacks by the U.S. and Israel "unjust."

19d ago / 4:32 AM EDT

Iran's Ministry of Interior said it would "preserve order and peace" in a statement on Saturday, which could be a warning to protestors not to take advantage of the attacks to take to the streets.

Widespread anti-government protests rocked Iran last month and were only stopped by a brutal government crackdown that led to thousands of deaths.

Protests in Tehran on Jan. 8. Getty Images

The statement said: “The criminal enemy, once again, in violation of all international laws and in the middle of negotiation, has assaulted our dear nation. The Ministry of Interior is committed to using its full capacity to preserve order and peace in society and provide services to the people.”

The statement requested people to stay calm and be careful when traveling within cities and between cities.

19d ago / 4:26 AM EDT

The sound of explosions is constant in central Tehran where air defenses have been activated.

But communication is difficult and internet watchdog Netblocks says there is only 4% conn