Reuters' "Pictures of the Day" | March 3, 2026 - March 3, 2026 | Reuters collected images and scenes from the U.S.-Israel conflict with Iran and related global reactions: Nirav Modi, the British businessman, watched his wife kiss their child at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in Mumbai, India, while he was reportedly stranded in Dubai because of the war; Rachel Reeves, the British Chancellor of the Exchequer, posed outside 11 Downing Street in London ahead of presenting the Spring Forecast to Parliament; in Petah Tikva, Israel, emergency crews worked at the site of an Iranian missile strike; RAF Akrotiri, a British sovereign base in Cyprus, was hit by a drone early in the week causing limited damage; in Magam town, Indian Kashmir, Shi'ite Muslim men protested and chanted anti-U.S. and anti-Israel slogans after the killing of Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei; in Tel Aviv during Purim, Israelis attended morning prayers and wore costumes in underground car parks functioning as bomb shelters, recalling the Book of Esther story of the Jews’ salvation from genocide in ancient Persia; near the U.S. Embassy in Manila, Philippines, protesters burned a U.S. flag at a rally against U.S.-Israeli strikes on Iran; on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., U.S. Secretary of State Marco Rubio briefed the media on the situation in Iran; at U.N. headquarters in New York City, First Lady Melania Trump presided over a United Nations Security Council meeting; in Tehran, photos showed the aftermath of a strike on a police station; in Minab, Iran, graves were being prepared for victims after an Israeli strike on a school; in Washington, D.C., U.S. President Donald Trump awarded the Medal of Honor to retired U.S. Army Command Sergeant Major Terry Richardson; at Mobile World Congress (MWC26) in Barcelona, Spain, a woman dressed as a robot showcased ZTE’s Nubia NEO 5 GT gaming smartphone; on the outskirts of Ahmedabad, India, Hindu devotees marked Holika Dahan as part of Holi; in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, a portrait of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei was displayed during a memorial ceremony for him and other Iranians killed in Israeli and U.S. strikes; at the Pentagon in Washington, D.C., Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth held a briefing; in Beijing, China, a soldier of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army stood guard ahead of the annual meeting of the National People’s Congress (NPC); and in Tel Aviv, the day’s Purim references underscored the holiday’s meaning as the ancient salvation of the Jews in Persia. ### Reuters' "Israeli military says Iranian missiles hit central Israel" | March 3, 2026 | Reuters reported that Israel’s military said Iranian missiles struck the Tel Aviv area in central Israel, with search and rescue forces and numerous emergency teams operating at the impact sites while the circumstances were “under review”; Israel’s ambulance service was treating three people for light injuries, and Israeli police reported several impact areas involving munition fragments in the Tel Aviv district. The article was by Steven Scheer, edited by Ros Russell, and carried Reuters standards language referencing the Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. ### Reuters' "Standard Chartered raises 2026 Brent forecasts following Middle East turmoil" | March 3, 2026 | Reuters said Standard Chartered raised its 2026 Brent crude forecast to $70 a barrel on average, up from $63.50, and lifted its first-quarter 2026 forecast from $62 to $74 and its second-quarter forecast to $67 from $63 as the U.S.-Israel war against Iran widened; Brent futures were up about 6% and traded at $82.38 a barrel at 1749 GMT. The bank said the forward curve had strengthened, that upward price risk had been dampened by “loose market balances,” and that tighter spare capacity and concentrated transit routes had come into sharper focus after OPEC restarted incremental production increases and OPEC+ agreed on Sunday to raise output by 206,000 barrels per day for April. The article said Iran’s retaliation against attacks by Israel and the U.S. included strikes on Gulf countries’ energy infrastructure and tankers in the Strait of Hormuz, a route carrying about a fifth of the world’s oil and liquefied natural gas. ### Fortune's "The stock market thinks the Iran war will last 4 weeks, according to Goldman's head of oil research" | March 3, 2026 | Fortune reported Goldman Sachs oil research head Daan Struyven saying Brent’s rise to approximately $78 a barrel after an 8% weekend surge suggested traders were betting the Iran conflict would last four weeks, reflecting acute anxiety over Middle Eastern energy supplies; the article said the major U.S. and Israeli military campaign against Iran, which killed Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, had jolted global oil markets, and it included a Strait of Hormuz image showing a U.S. Navy vessel sailing there on March 1, 2026, photographed by Sahar AL ATTAR, with the article credited to Business Editor Nick Lichtenberg at March 3, 2026, 11:50 AM ET. ### CNN Politics' "John Cornyn and Ken Paxton will advance to a runoff in Texas’ US Senate Republican primary, CNN projects" | 2026-03-03 | CNN projected U.S. Senator John Cornyn and Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton would advance to a runoff on May 26, 2026, in the Texas Republican primary for U.S. Senate after no candidate reached the 50 percent threshold needed to avoid a runoff; U.S. Representative Wesley Hunt, who launched his Senate bid in October 2025, did not advance. The piece said national Republicans and allies of John Thune viewed Cornyn as the safest bet, while Trump had not endorsed anyone; Trump had previously called Cornyn a RINO, compared him to Mitt Romney, and predicted he would lose reelection, while Cornyn criticized Trump’s January 6, 2021, “reckless” language. Paxton’s backing included Turning Point Action; he had been impeached by the Texas House in 2023 on corruption allegations and acquitted by the state Senate; his wife, state senator Angela Paxton, announced a divorce filing on biblical grounds in July 2025; Cornyn said he would spend “tens of millions of dollars” before the runoff and predicted Paxton would be unelectable. ### CNN Politics' "Election 2026: Results, news and analysis" | 2026-03-03 | CNN said Illinois state troopers used code names “Sprinter” for lieutenant governor and new Democratic U.S. Senate nominee Juliana Stratton and “Believer” for Governor JB Pritzker, who put his political capital and upward of $10 million behind her campaign; the reporting framed Pritzker’s backing as a major power play. ### PBS News' "Texas GOP Sen. Cornyn tries to hold his seat for a 5th term while Democrats Crockett, Talarico face off" | 2026-03-03 | PBS said Cornyn was fighting Paxton and Wesley Hunt in the Republican Senate primary while Democrats James Talarico and Jasmine Crockett were the party’s first major 2026 contest to decide who would face the GOP