Oil markets and Middle East war news dominated the batch on “Oil prices surge as Iran escalates tanker attacks, shares fall | Reuters” published “2026-03-12,” which said Brent crude futures settled at “$100.46 a barrel” and U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude at “$95.70 a barrel,” both their highest since “August 2022,” after Brent touched a session high of “$101.60” and both benchmarks jumped “9.2%” and “9.7%,” respectively; the article tied the surge to Iran escalating tanker attacks in the Gulf, where “at least 16 ships” had been struck since the fighting began, Tehran warned the world to prepare for oil at “$200 a barrel,” and Iraqi officials said two fuel tankers in Iraqi waters were struck by “explosive-laden Iranian boats,” causing “Iraq’s oil ports” to “completely stop operations.” It also noted the Dow Jones Industrial Average and S&P 500 fell about “1.5%,” the Nasdaq Composite lost “1.8%,” the STOXX 600 slipped “0.6%,” and the MSCI All-World index fell “1.5%,” while 10-year Treasury yields rose “5.5 basis points” to “4.261%,” two-year yields hit a six-month high, gold fell about “1.7%” to “$5,088 an ounce,” the euro slipped “0.45%” to “$1.1515,” and the dollar was “0.28%” stronger against the yen and more than “1.5%” higher versus a basket of major currencies. Reuters said Monica Guerra, head of U.S. policy at Morgan Stanley Wealth Management, warned persistent high oil prices could complicate the Fed’s reaction function and support a higher fed funds rate for longer; Reuters-pollled economists expected the Federal Reserve to cut rates for the first time in June 2026, with nearly “40%” expecting just one or no cuts in all of 2026. The same Reuters day also described turmoil in private credit, with Morgan Stanley down “4%,” Blackstone down “4.7%,” and BlackRock down “2.9%” after concerns over funds in that market and Partners Group warning the “$2 trillion private credit market” could double. It quoted new Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Mojtaba Khamenei, who had recently succeeded his slain father, saying Iran would keep the Strait of Hormuz closed and attack U.S. bases “to avenge its martyrs,” while U.S. Energy Secretary Chris Wright said global oil prices were unlikely to hit “$200 a barrel,” and Ayako Yoshioka of Wealth Enhancement said, “the longer the conflict goes on, the more stress is inserted into global markets.” ### “11 Iranian Cluster Missiles Penetrated. One Dropped 70 Bombs Over Central Israel - National Security & Cyber” published “2026-03-12” was a Haaretz analysis saying “11” Iranian cluster missiles penetrated Israel’s air defenses during the current war that began in late February 2026; the night of March 12 featured a Khorramshahr missile launch at “10:50 P.M.” carrying at least “70 bomblets,” with a Jordanian photographer filming the missile from Amman and showing the payload. The piece said Iran’s cluster warheads, which open at about “seven kilometers” altitude, are meant for area targets like “airfields, soft vehicles, and radar stations,” with heavier bomblets weighing about “20 kilograms” and containing “four kilograms” of explosive; Tal Inbar of the Missile Defense Advocacy Alliance said long-range Iranian missiles able to reach Israel that can carry cluster warheads include the Ghadr, Emad, and Khorramshahr. It identified the two Israelis killed by cluster munitions in Yehud as Bar Peleg and Oded Yaron, who failed to “lie flat on the ground” as advised when sirens sounded, and said a bomblet in Ramat Gan on February 28, 2026, penetrated “15 centimeters” into the basement ceiling of a “90-year-old concrete block building.” Conventional ballistic missiles striking Tel Aviv and Beit Shemesh killed “10 people,” versus “two deaths” caused by cluster missiles in that period; two others were seriously injured in Tel Aviv and Or Yehuda, and a cluster bomblet hurled a car several meters in Tel Aviv. The article said the seven populated locations hit by bomblets stretched “27 kilometers” from Peduel in the West Bank to Holon on the Mediterranean coast, and that Iran and Israel are not signatories to the international convention banning cluster munitions, whose high dud rate leaves unexploded ordnance that can remain for “months or years.” Chief Superintendent Doron Lavi of the National Police Bomb Disposal Division said cluster munitions disperse unevenly over an enormous area, forcing searches of many scenes, and Yoav Saban of the Drom Hasharon Regional Council oversees “94,000 dunams (94 square kilometers)” and uses drones to scan schools; a special joint operations center was opened by police and Home Front Command to scan large areas and neutralize unexploded bomblets. ### “Iran's new supreme leader vows to keep Hormuz shut, Netanyahu issues threat” published “2026-03-12” reported Mojtaba Khamenei’s first comments since succeeding his slain father in late February 2026, including a vow to keep the Strait of Hormuz shut, call on Iran’s neighbors to shut U.S. bases on their territory, and “not neglect” avenging the blood of martyrs; the story said oil prices rose about “9%” to “$100 a barrel,” the euro slipped, the dollar strengthened, and investors were seeking dollar liquidity because Japan and much of Europe are net energy importers while the U.S. is a net energy exporter. It quoted Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, in his first press conference since the start of the war, saying he would not issue life insurance policies on leaders of the “terrorist organization,” a veiled threat to Khamenei, and said more than “2,000 people” had been killed in the war including almost “700 in Lebanon.” It reported two tankers ablaze in Iraqi Basra waters after suspected Iranian explosive-laden boats, with at least one crew member killed; the Revolutionary Guards claimed responsibility for setting ablaze a Thai bulk carrier in the Gulf; Israel intensified its offensive against Hezbollah after the group’s biggest volley of rockets since the war started; “7 U.S. troops” had been killed; drones were reported in Kuwait, Iraq, the UAE, Bahrain and Oman; Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent told Sky News the U.S. Navy, perhaps with an international coalition, would escort vessels when militarily possible; Trump said the U.S. makes a lot of money when oil prices go up; the U.S. and Canada would co-host the 2026 World Cup and Trump said it was not appropriate for the Iranian men’s team to be there “for their own safety”; and a military spokesman had warned on March 11 that the world should prepare for oil at “$200 a barrel.” ### Bloomberg’s “US Navy Could Escort Hormuz Tankers by Month-End, Wright Says” published “2026-03-12” said