Exclusive: Top European spies sceptical US will clinch Ukraine peace deal this year | Reuters | 2026-02-19: five anonymous heads of European intelligence agencies were broadly pessimistic and sceptical that a peace agreement ending Russia’s war in Ukraine would be reached within 2026, saying Russia did not want to end the war quickly and was still pursuing bigger goals, including the removal of Ukrainian leader Volodymyr Zelenskiy and turning Ukraine into a “neutral” buffer to the West. The assessment came as U.S. President Donald Trump said U.S.-brokered talks had brought the prospect of a deal “reasonably close,” with the White House and Ukraine aiming to clinch a deal by June, before the U.S. congressional mid-term elections in November 2026. The third round of U.S.-mediated talks between Ukrainian and Russian negotiators remained stuck on territory, with Moscow demanding Kyiv withdraw from the remaining 20% of the eastern Donetsk region that Russia does not control. Zelenskiy, posting on X on Thursday, said he did not need “historical shit” to end the war, calling discussion of historical roots a delay tactic, and said Ukraine should have an active role in the talks. Two European officials said Moscow was trying to split the diplomacy into two tracks, one on the war and another on bilateral deals such as sanctions relief. Zelenskiy said his intelligence services reported U.S. and Russian negotiators discussing bilateral cooperation deals worth as much as $12 trillion, while Russian envoy Kirill Dmitriev claimed on X on Wednesday that the portfolio of potential U.S.-Russia projects was over $14 trillion; a European spy chief said the offer was designed to appeal to Donald Trump and to Russian oligarchs who had not profited from the war because of sanctions. One European intelligence chief said Russia’s economy was “not on the verge of collapse” and that Moscow neither wanted nor needed a quick peace; another said Russia could be satisfied territorially if it got the rest of Donetsk, but that would not satisfy its objective of overthrowing Zelenskiy’s pro-Western government and would only be “maybe the beginning of actual negotiations,” after which further demands would follow. A third chief warned Russia faced “very high” financial risks in the second half of 2026 because of limited access to capital markets and high borrowing costs, noting Russia grew just 1% last year and analysts see the economy as somewhere between stagnation and recession, with the central bank rate at 15.5% shaping borrowing costs and the liquid part of the “rainy day” fund having more than halved since the 2022 invasion. The spies also said the West’s negotiators had “very limited” skill in dealing with Russia and that the belief Moscow would settle quickly if Kyiv ceded Donetsk was “misplaced.” Russia’s foreign ministry did not immediately respond; Vladimir Putin said he was ready for peace but on his terms, and Russian officials said European governments had repeatedly been wrong in their assessments of Russia. White House spokeswoman Anna Kelly said Trump and his team had done more than anyone to bring both sides together to stop the killing and deliver a peace deal. ### What's the status of international oil companies in Venezuela? | Reuters | 2026-02-19: after the U.S. captured President Nicolas Maduro in January 2026, Washington eased sanctions by issuing general licenses that allow global energy companies to operate oil and gas projects in Venezuela, reviving work by Chevron, Shell, BP, Eni, Repsol, Maurel & Prom and others while excluding rivals from China, Russia and Iran. Chevron exported around 150,000 barrels per day of heavy crude to the U.S. Gulf Coast in November 2025 and some 100,000 barrels per day in December 2025, and its four Chevron-PDVSA joint ventures produce 240,000 to 250,000 barrels per day with Chevron saying gross production could grow by about 50% in the short term; it currently processes 50,000 barrels per day at U.S. refineries and can process an additional 100,000 barrels per day through Gulf and West coast refineries. ConocoPhillips said it has so far collected $794 million of an approximately $12 billion arbitration award tied to expropriated Hugo Chávez-era assets, and Italy’s Eni said Venezuela owed it $2.3 billion as of June 2025, up after the U.S. in March 2025 revoked all licenses to recover money owed via PDVSA crude oil cargoes; ExxonMobil said in 2023 that Venezuela owed it $984.5 million over expropriated Cerro Negro and La Ceiba projects, with U.S. court recognition of that obligation in September 2025, and the company declined to migrate its projects to joint ventures with PDVSA, leaving it no longer present in Venezuela. Repsol is owed 4.55 billion euros ($5.37 billion), including 947 million euros in financing for Petroquiriquire, and has written down around 3.6 billion euros; it was notified in March 2025 that its Venezuela license had been revoked, though CEO Josu Jon Imaz said in February 2026 Repsol can increase output by 50% in 12 months and triple it within three years, while also working to raise gas production by 10%. The French producer Maurel & Prom, also under a U.S. general license, said its activities at Urdaneta Oeste were running satisfactorily, with January 2026 gross production averaging about 21,000 barrels per day and M&P Iberoamerica holding a 40% stake. BP and Trinidad and Tobago’s National Gas Company had a 2024 exploration and production license for the Manakin-Cocuina gas field, but planning stalled when the U.S. revoked the previous authorization in April 2025. Shell and Trinidad and Tobago’s NGC were set to operate the still-to-produce Dragon gas field, with output to be sent to Trinidad to be turned into liquefied natural gas; the project was restarted for planning in October 2025 and Shell CEO Wael Sawan said in February 2026 he hoped Dragon would start producing within three years. China Concord Resources Corp planned to invest more than $1 billion in two oilfields to produce 60,000 barrels per day by end-2026. ### Exclusive: Gunvor management buyout values trading group at around $5 billion, sources say | Reuters | 2026-02-19: Gunvor Group Ltd was valued at around $5 billion in a management buyout financed by a vendor loan of more than $4 billion from founder Torbjorn Tornqvist, who held 86% of the group before agreeing in December to step down and sell his entire stake after the U.S. Treasury blocked his bid to buy assets of Russia’s Lukoil. CEO Gary Pedersen is leading employees in repaying the loan over 10 years out of annual dividends, though one source said repayment can be extended beyond 10 years; Gunvor and Tornqvist’s representative declined to comment. The valuation is below Gunvor’s last disclosed 2024 equity value of $6.5 billion because Tornqvist excluded some assets from the deal, including those tied to his sailing hobbies and funding of a professional sailing team. The article noted that valuing traders is difficult because their key assets are staff, who can move to rivals,