The House Oversight Committee this week voted to subpoena Attorney General Pam Bondi. The US requested Kyiv’s help in combatting Iran’s Shahed drones. The US requested Kyiv’s help in combatting Iran’s Shahed drones. The World at a Glance Updated 11:51am EST 1The US economy lost 92,000 jobs in February, denting hopes that the labor market was on the mend. 2The US and Iran hinted at deescalation, but skepticism over a workable post-war plan in the Middle East remains high. 3Conflict in the Middle East is undermining the region’s image as a finance hub and risks alienating foreign investors. 4The US and Venezuela agreed to reestablish official diplomatic ties, two months after Washington’s ouster of the Latin American country’s leader. 5The war in the Middle East threatens global energy supplies and economic stability, officials in the region warned. 6China’s Alibaba pledged more resources to speed up the development of AI models to keep pace in the global race. The US economy lost 92,000 jobs in February, denting hopes that the labor market was on the mend. The US and Iran hinted at deescalation, but skepticism over a workable post-war plan in the Middle East remains high. Conflict in the Middle East is undermining the region’s image as a finance hub and risks alienating foreign investors. The US and Venezuela agreed to reestablish official diplomatic ties, two months after Washington’s ouster of the Latin American country’s leader. The war in the Middle East threatens global energy supplies and economic stability, officials in the region warned. China’s Alibaba pledged more resources to speed up the development of AI models to keep pace in the global race. Washington policymakers disagree over whether the US should prioritize democracy promotion over its strategic interests."With President Trump having weaponized independent agencies and antitrust enforcers to do his political bidding, it is essential that states fill the void and aggressively protect consumers," the groups wrote. The US requested Kyiv’s help in combatting Iran’s Shahed drones. The House Oversight Committee this week voted to subpoena Attorney General Pam Bondi. US President Donald Trump said he wanted a role in picking Iran’s next leader, further muddying Washington’s war motives. The Montana Republican sat down with Semafor to talk about the backstory behind his sudden, field-clearing retirement from Congress. The president replaced his Homeland Security chief on Thursday after a long string of missteps and controversies. Eight in 10 Americans say that preventing the spread of nuclear weapons is a "very important" US foreign policy objective. The Treasury Secretary told House Republicans the party should seek to pass its own housing affordability legislation. The Montana Republican unexpectedly dropped his reelection bid on Wednesday night. If the state attorney general faces Democrat James Talarico, it "becomes more expensive, and it’s at-risk," the former NRSC chair said. Regional capitals have courted the high-finance set, but widespread drone strikes risk undermining the Gulf’s safe-haven reputation.Qatar’s energy minister told the Financial Times regional exporters may have to shut down oil and gas production within days. Regional conflict risks knocking Gulf’s image as financial hub. CEO Andrew Anagnost says software companies need three defensive qualities. The long-tenured leader has a time and a person in mind — and some advice on what the job takes. Companies largely quiet over insider trading on prediction marketsRegionals conflict risks knocking Gulf’s image as financial hub. Qatar’s energy minister told the Financial Times regional exporters may have to shut down oil and gas production within days. CEO Andrew Anagnost says software companies need three defensive qualities. The long-tenured leader has a time and a person in mind — and some advice on what the job takes. Semafor reached out to more than 100 companies, law firms, banks, PR shops, and hedge funds, and found that few had explicit rules around prediction markets. Payments startup Airwallex expands into US, crosses $1B in assets under management.Airwallex hopes its infrastructure, which took a decade to build, will put it in a good position to capitalize on the AI boom, which is driven by subscriptions and API fees.Support for AI guardrails is one of the most bipartisan issues in the US, according to a new survey shared exclusively with Semafor.Nvidia has stopped making its H200 chips intended for the Chinese market, the Financial Times reported.The Pentagon deployed the powerful tool during its attack on Iran within hours of banning it, and is reportedly still using it.Altman’s worldview hinges on the belief that “a democratically elected government” usurps “unelected private companies.”Middle East war sparks global economic, energy disruption. Ras Tanura oil refinery in Saudi Arabia after a drone attack. The plan reaffirmed China’s conviction to "fully implement" the UN’s climate convention and the Paris Agreement.Executives from Amazon, Google, Meta, Microsoft, xAI, Oracle, and OpenAI signed a "ratepayer protection pledge."Someone bought a $115M penthouse in Dubai. The off-plan apartment at Aman Residences Dubai on the Jumeirah Peninsula is expected to be completed in 2028.Airline disruptions hit Saudi as conflict enters second week. At Riyadh’s King Khalid International Airport, employees told Semafor that most flights were cancelled last night. One constant remains: The region will stand with Washington against a weakened, but still deadly, Iran. The Pentagon is reportedly looking to buy Ukraine’s cheap drone interceptors to ward off Iranian strikes. The Gulf is still dealmaking, for now. Sovereign funds are still doing global deals but attracting money to the Gulf will slow down, at least for now.Canal+ to shutter streaming service Showmax. Launched in 2015, Showmax was an attempt to challenge global streaming giants in the battle to reach Africa’s growing middle class.Drugmaker Aspen plans Africa weight-loss drug push. Aspen’s CEO told investors that he expects sales of Mounjaro to cross ⁠1.3 billion rand ($77.7 million) in the year to June.South Africa engages with US despite ‘racist’ policies — Ramaphosa. US President Donald Trump has repeatedly accused Pretoria of carrying out a "genocide" against white South Africans. Conflict-hit Gulf states may review Africa investments. A rethink could impact anything from investment pledges to foreign states to contracts with businesses. Many African nations will be impacted by surging energy prices, threats to remittances, and air travel chaos from the conflict in the Gulf. Middle East crisis risks upending burgeoning Gulf-Africa ties. African governments have increasingly relied on Gulf nations — over Washington or Beijing — as sources of capital. Skepticism over workable post-war plan in Middle East. Iran and the US have made overtures to end their widening war, though officials are skeptical that either side is ready to seek peace. Stakes rising in Middle East as war enters second week. The US said it would expand its aerial campaign against Iran, Israel stepped up strikes against Tehran, and Iran attacked regional capitals.Washington, DC. What the White House is reading. Business. The stories (& the scoops) from Wall Street. Technology. What’s next in the new era of tech. Energy. The nexus of politics, tech, and energy. Gulf. Navigating the region’s capital, influence, and power. China. Intelligence on the global realignment. Africa. A rapidly-growing continent’s crucial stories. Americana. An insider’s guide to American power. Media. Media’s essential read. Semafor. Semafor - An intelligent, transparent global news platform for breaking stories, analysis and video. Intelligence for the New World Economy. Semafor Climate targets in 5-year plan. The US requested Kyiv’s help in combatting Iran’s Shahed drones. The US and Iran hinted at deescalation, but skepticism over a workable post-war plan in the Middle East remains high. Conflict in the Middle East is undermining the region’s image as a finance hub and risks alienating foreign investors. The US and Venezuela agreed to reestablish official diplomatic ties, two months after Washington’s ouster of the Latin American country’s leader. The war in the Middle East threatens global energy supplies and economic stability, officials in the region warned. China’s Alibaba pledged more resources to speed up the development of AI models to keep pace in the global race. Washington policymakers disagree over whether the US should prioritize democracy promotion over its strategic interests."With President Trump having weaponized independent agencies and antitrust enforcers to do his political bidding, it is essential that states fill the void and aggressively protect consumers," the groups wrote. The US requested Kyiv’s help in combatting Iran’s Shahed drones. The House Oversight Committee this week voted to subpoena Attorney General Pam Bondi. US President Donald Trump said he wanted a role in picking Iran’s next leader, further muddying Washington’s war motives. The Montana Republican sat down with Semafor to talk about the backstory behind his sudden, field-clearing retirement from Congress. The president replaced his Homeland Security chief on Thursday after a long string of missteps and controversies. Eight in 10 Americans say that preventing the spread of nuclear weapons is a "very important" US foreign policy objective. The Treasury Secretary told House Republicans the party should seek to pass its own housing affordability legislation. The Montana Republican unexpectedly dropped his reelection bid on Wednesday night. If the state attorney general faces Democrat James Talarico, it "becomes more expensive, and it’s at-risk," the former NRSC chair said. Regional capitals have courted the high-finance set, but widespread drone strikes risk undermining the Gulf’s safe-haven reputation.Qatar’s energy minister told the Financial Times regional exporters may have to shut down oil and gas production within days. Regional conflict risks knocking Gulf’s image as financial hub. CEO Andrew Anagnost says software companies need three defensive qualities. The longest-tenured leader has a time and a person in mind — and some advice on what the job takes. Companies largely quiet over insider trading on prediction marketsRegionals conflict risks knocking Gulf’s image as financial hub. Qatar’s energy minister told the Financial Times regional exporters may have to shut down oil and gas production within days. CEO Andrew Anagnost says software companies need three defensive qualities. The long-tenured leader has a time and a person in mind — and some advice on what the job takes. Semafor reached out to more than 100 companies, law firms, banks, PR shops, and hedge funds, and found that few had explicit rules around prediction markets. Payments startup Airwallex expands into US, crosses $1B in assets under management.Airwallex hopes its infrastructure, which took a decade to build, will put it in a good position to capitalize on the AI boom, which is driven by subscriptions and API fees.Support for AI guardrails is one of the most bipartisan issues in the US, according to a new survey shared exclusively with Semafor.Nvidia has stopped making its H200 chips intended for the Chinese market, the Financial Times reported.The Pentagon deployed the powerful tool during its attack on Iran within hours of banning it, and is reportedly still using it.Altman’s worldview hinges on the belief that “a democratically elected government” usurps “unelected private companies.”Middle East war sparks global economic, energy disruption. Ras Tanura oil refinery in Saudi Arabia after a drone attack. The plan reaffirmed China’s conviction to "fully implement" the UN’s climate convention and the Paris Agreement.Executives from Amazon, Google, Meta, Microsoft, xAI, Oracle, and OpenAI signed a "ratepayer protection pledge."Someone bought a $115M penthouse in Dubai. The off-plan apartment at Aman Residences Dubai on the Jumeirah Peninsula is expected to be completed in 2028.Airline disruptions hit Saudi as conflict enters second week. At Riyadh’s King Khalid International Airport, employees told Semafor that most flights were cancelled last night. One constant remains: The region will stand with Washington against a weakened, but still deadly, Iran. The Pentagon is reportedly looking to buy Ukraine’s cheap drone interceptors to ward off Iranian strikes. The Gulf is still dealmaking, for now. Sovereign funds are still doing global deals but attracting money to the Gulf will slow down, at least for now.Canal+ to shutter streaming service Showmax. Launched in 2015, Showmax was an attempt to challenge global streaming giants in the battle to reach Africa’s growing middle class.Drugmaker Aspen plans Africa weight-loss drug push. Aspen’s CEO told investors that he expects sales of Mounjaro to cross ⁠1.3 billion rand ($77.7 million) in the year to June.South Africa engages with US despite ‘racist’ policies — Ramaphosa. US President Donald Trump has repeatedly accused Pretoria of carrying out a "genocide" against white South Africans. Conflict-hit Gulf states may review Africa investments. A rethink could impact anything from investment pledges to foreign states to contracts with businesses. Many African nations will be impacted by surging energy prices, threats to remittances, and air travel chaos from the conflict in the Gulf. Middle East crisis risks upending burgeoning Gulf-Africa ties. African governments have increasingly relied on Gulf nations — over Washington or Beijing — as sources of capital. Skepticism over workable post-war plan in Middle East. Iran and the US have made overtures to end their widening war, though officials are skeptical that either side is ready to seek peace. Stakes rising in Middle East as war enters second week. The US said it would expand its aerial campaign against Iran, Israel stepped up strikes against Tehran, and Iran attacked regional capitals.