Trump has call with Putin to discuss Iran war, Kremlin says | PBS News

Full Episode

Wednesday, Mar 18

PBS News

By —

Associated Press Associated Press

Leave your feedback

Share

Copy URL

https://www.pbs.org/newshour/politics/trump-has-call-with-putin-to-discuss-iran-war-kremlin-says

- Tumblr
- Pinterest
- LinkedIn
- Twitter
- Facebook
- Email

Share on Facebook Share on Twitter

# Trump has call with Putin to discuss Iran war, Kremlin says

Politics Mar 9, 2026 5:51 PM EDT

President Donald Trump had a call Monday with Russian President Vladimir Putin to discuss the war in Iran and other issues, according to the Kremlin.

READ MORE: The war in Iran has entered a second week. Here's where things stand

Putin's foreign affairs adviser Yuri Ushakov described the conversation as "frank and businesslike" and said it lasted about one hour.

He said the Russian president "voiced a few ideas aimed at a quick political and diplomatic settlement" of the conflict following his conversations with Gulf leaders and Iran's president.

Trump offered his assessment of the developing situation, Ushakov said, "in the context of the ongoing U.S.-Israeli operation."

The two leaders had a "specific and useful" exchange of views, and they touched on Venezuela "in the context of the situation in the global oil market," he said.

READ MORE: Oil prices soar to levels not seen in years as war in Iran intensifies

Putin said earlier Monday that Russia has "repeatedly warned that attempts to destabilize the situation in the Middle East will inevitably jeopardize" the global energy market, raising prices and limiting supplies.

The Russian leader emphasized that Moscow is a "reliable energy supplier" and will continue to supply oil and gas to "countries that themselves are reliable partners," like those in the Asia-Pacific region or Slovakia and Hungary in Eastern Europe. Moreover, Russia is "increasing supplies" to its reliable partners, Putin said.

He reiterated that Russia was pondering diverting gas supplies from the European Union, where a full ban on Russian gas from 2027 was agreed, to other markets, but added that if "European buyers" change their mind, Moscow was ready to work with them.

A free press is a cornerstone of a healthy democracy.

Support trusted journalism and civil dialogue.

Donate now

Iranian foreign minister says negotiations with U.S. may be off the table

By Joshua Barajas, Steff Staples

WATCH: Trump holds news conference to answer questions about Iran

By Associated Press

Europe rallies around Cyprus after Iranian drone hits island

By Sylvie Corbet, Menelaos Hadjicostis, Associated Press

Some leaders see powerful argument for renewable energy as Iran war shakes markets

By Seth Borenstein, Jennifer McDermott, Associated Press

Oil prices soar to levels not seen in years as war in Iran intensifies

By Alex Veiga, Elaine Kurtenbach, Associated Press

Mojtaba Khamenei, a son of Iran's late supreme leader, is chosen to replace his father

By Jon Gambrell, Associated Press

By —

Associated Press Associated Press

Full Episode

Wednesday, Mar 18