Gold gains on fears of prolonged Middle East conflict | Reuters

Gold gains on fears of prolonged Middle East conflict | Reuters

Exclusive news, data and analytics for financial market professionalsLearn more aboutRefinitiv

Gold bars are displayed to be photographed at bullion house in Mumbai December 3, 2009. Gold struck another peak of new high of $1,224.65 an ounce on Thursday because of its investor appeal as a safe asset and Asian stocks looked past Wall Street's weak finish to eke out gains. REUTERS/Arko Datta (INDIA BUSINESS)

[1/2]Gold bars are displayed to be photographed at bullion house in Mumbai December 3, 2009. Gold struck another peak of new high of $1,224.65 an ounce on Thursday because of its investor appeal as a... Purchase Licensing Rights, opens new tab Read more

- Summary

- Iran conflict widens to Lebanon
- Dubai gold flows curbed as flights halted due to strikes
- Spot gold up about 23% this year
- Silver slips over 5%

March 2 (Reuters) - Safe‑haven gold rose on Monday in response to ​concerns of a prolonged conflict in the Middle East following U.S. and Israeli strikes against Iran.

Spot ‌gold was up 0.4% at $5,297.31 an ounce by 1831 GMT, having pared some gains as profit‑taking set in after the metal rose more than 2% earlier in the session. Prices hit a record of $5,594.82 on January 29.

Sign up here.

U.S. gold futures settled 1.2% higher ​at $5,311.60.

The U.S. dollar index (.DXY), opens new tab rose 1%, making bullion priced in dollars more expensive for other currency ​holders.

"Right now, the market is attempting to figure out whether these attacks are ⁠going to be followed up over the next several weeks," said David Meger, director of metals trading ​at High Ridge Futures. "I think it's that uncertainty that is more than likely to support prices."

## AIR WAR ​EXPANDED ON MONDAY

The U.S.-Israeli air war against Iran expanded with no end in sight, as Israel attacked Lebanon in response to strikes by Hezbollah and Tehran kept up its missile and drone attacks on Gulf states. President Donald Trump said a "big wave"​of further attacks was imminent, without giving details.

Oil and gas prices surged as strikes forced shutdowns of ​oil and gas facilities across the Middle East and disrupted shipping in the crucial Strait of Hormuz.

Analysts at SP Angel said ‌that rising ⁠geopolitical fragmentation has prompted BRIC central banks to reduce their exposure to dollar‑denominated assets in favour of gold, adding that they expect this theme to continue. Meanwhile, BNP Paribas said it expects physical gold investment demand will be a big driver this year.

Gold, long regarded as a safe asset in times of uncertainty, ​has notched multiple record ​highs and climbed nearly ⁠23% so far this year. The rally builds on its exceptional 64% jump in 2025, fuelled by robust central‑bank purchases, strong inflows into exchange‑traded funds and ​a shift toward looser U.S. monetary policy.

According to three metals industry sources, physical gold ​flows to ⁠and from Dubai's bullion trading hub will be severely curbed in the coming days as airlines cancel flights due to the strikes.

On the data front, the market will monitor the ADP employment report, weekly jobless claims and ⁠the ​non‑farm payrolls report this week.

Among other metals, spot silver fell ​5.7% to $88.46 an ounce after touching its highest since January 30.

Spot platinum fell 2.7% to $2,300.50 while palladium lost 0.9% to $1,770.66.

Reporting by Ashitha ​Shivaprasad in Bengaluru Additional reporting by Noel John and Kavya Balaraman; Editing by David Goodman, Barbara Lewis and Sahal Muhammed

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles., opens new tab

Purchase Licensing Rights

Ashitha Shivaprasad

Thomson Reuters

Ashitha covers the commodity landscape, with increased focus on precious metals, minor metals, and agricultural commodities.

- 
- 
- 

World

Eight states ask US judge to temporarily block Nexstar, Tegna merger

Worldcategory· March 20, 2026 · 7:12 PM UTC · ago

Eight states asked a U.S. judge on ​Friday to issue a ‌temporary restraining order to stop the $3.5 billion merger of ​Nexstar Media Group ​and Tegna.

category

Cubans queue for water in Havana amid fuel and power crisis

Worldcategory

Nevada judge temporarily blocks Kalshi from operating prediction market in state

Americascategory

Mexican volunteers load boats with aid for energy‑strapped Cuba

category

Iraq declares force majeure on foreign-operated oilfields over Hormuz disruption, sources say