Iran's new supreme leader vows to keep blocking Strait of Hormuz as oil prices spike again

Mojtaba Khamenei defied calls by Trump and global markets to reopen the vital oil trade route in his first public statement to the nation.

Iran strikes oil tankers in Strait of Hormuz as conflict escalates

The supreme leader says Iran will “avenge the blood” of the 170 people, mostly children, who were killed in a likely U.S. strike on an elementary school.

Outdated intelligence likely led to the strike on the Shajareh Tayyebeh elementary school in Minab on the first day of the U.S.-Israeli assault, according to a U.S. official and three sources familiar with the preliminary findings of a U.S. military investigation, which found American ordinance was probably responsible. Witnesses and an Iranian Education Ministry official said previously that the school was located on a compound that was a base for the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps until about 15 years ago.

“I assure everyone that we will not abandon the pursuit of justice for the blood of your martyrs,” Mojtaba Khamenei said in his first message in office. He said particular vengeance would be carried out for “the blood of our children,” and that “the crime deliberately committed by the enemy against the Shajareh Tayyebeh school in Minab, and similar cases, will receive particular attention.”

President Donald Trump appeared to dismiss rising energy costs in the U.S. and around the world, saying in a social media post just prior to the Iranian supreme leader's address that "when oil prices go up, we make a lot of money."

"BUT, of far greater interest and importance to me, as President, is stoping (sic) an evil Empire, Iran, from having Nuclear Weapons, and destroying the Middle East and, indeed, the World," Trump said in a post on his Truth Social platform. "I won't ever let that happen!"

The cost of oil and natural gas has spiked as the Iranian regime ramped up its attacks on shipping and energy structure across the Middle East, most notably along the Strait of Hormuz, the key waterway that carries 20% of the world's crude supply.

Supreme Leader Mojtaba Khamenei said in the statement read out on state television that this effective blockade must continue.

The supreme leader said that Iran was "only targeting military bases" in neighboring countries "out of necessity" and that "we believe in friendship with our neighbors."

Though Iran has maintained it is only targeting U.S. bases across the Gulf, attacks have hit civilian targets including residential buildings and oil facilities.

A banner depicting Iran's new supreme leader, Mojtaba Khamenei, in Tehran yesterday. Khoshiran / Middle East Images / AFP via Getty

These are the first comments made by Khamenei since he was appointed supreme leader four days ago, during which time there have been mounting reports and speculation that he was injured in an airstrike.

Mojtaba Khamenei has said that the Strait of Hormuz must remain closed, defying calls by President Donald Trump and global markets to reopen the vital oil trade route.

“Certainly, the lever of blocking the Strait of Hormuz should still be used,” Khamenei said, according to a quote from his first message to the public that was shared by the semiofficial Tasnim news agency.

Iran has vowed to attack any U.S., Israeli or allied ship that dares to cross the narrow strait, which sees one-fifth of the world’s oil pass through it each year. The war's disruption has sent oil prices surging.

Iran’s new supreme leader, Mojtaba Khamenei, has issued his first statement while in office, with the state broadcaster showing a banner of his face while an anchor reads the message in Farsi.

We will have more to come.

Iran's new Supreme Leader Mojtaba Khamenei is set to give his first message since being appointed, according to the country's semiofficial Tasnim news agency, following nearly four days of silence amid reports that he was wounded in an airstrike.

The message will address “the martyred leader of the revolution, the role and duties of the people, the armed forces, executive institutions, and the resistance front, as well as regional countries and confronting enemies,” Tasnim said.

A demonstrator holds a picture of Iran's new Supreme Leader Mojtaba Khamenei at a rally in Tehran on Monday. Arezoo / Middle East Images/AFP via Getty Images

The hard-line Khamenei, 56, was elevated to the role earlier this week to succeed his father, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who was killed in the U.S.-Israeli bombing campaign.

Rumors about the younger Khamenei's health were sparked after Iran’s state TV referred to him as “janbaz” — meaning “wounded by the enemy.” A government adviser said that he was injured but "safe."