US, China trade chiefs to meet mid-March before Trump-Xi summit | The Straits Times

myST+

Menu

# US, China trade chiefs to meet mid-March before Trump-Xi summit

Sign up now: Get ST's newsletters delivered to your inbox

US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent (left) and China’s Vice-Premier He Lifeng are expected to convene in Paris at the end of next week.

PHOTO: REUTERS

Published Mar 03, 2026, 01:20 PM

Updated Mar 03, 2026, 03:29 PM

Follow our live coverage here.

WASHINGTON/BEIJING – US and Chinese trade negotiators are slated to meet in mid-March, according to people familiar with the matter, signalling a planned summit between US President Donald Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping is pushing ahead despite American strikes against Iran.

US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent and China’s Vice-Premier He Lifeng are expected to convene in Paris at the end of next week to discuss business deals that could stem from the leaders’ meeting, said the people who requested anonymity to discuss plans that aren’t yet public.

Both the timing and location of the meeting could still shift, the people added.

Among the issues that could be addressed are a possible Chinese purchase of Boeing Co planes, commitments to buy US soybeans and Taiwan, the self-ruled island China views as its own, some of the people said.

The future of US fentanyl tariffs struck down by the Supreme Court could also be on the agenda, they added.

The US Treasury and the Chinese Ministry of Commerce didn’t reply to requests for comment.

US strikes on Iran and the killing of its Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has stoked tensions with Beijing in recent days, complicating summit preparations.

Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi called it “unacceptable to openly kill the leader of a sovereign country and institute regime change”.

China also condemned the US use of force after the

Trump administration snatched Venezuela’s Nicolas Maduro from his Caracas home in January.

Mr Trump is travelling to China between March 31 to April 2 to meet with Mr Xi, the first trip by an American president since his visit in 2017.

Those dates announced by the US haven’t been confirmed by Beijing, which normally only releases details of the Chinese leader’s itinerary days in advance.

The mid-March meeting marks the first sit-down between high-level US and Chinese officials since the Supreme Court dealt a blow to Mr Trump’s global tariff strategy, forcing him to pursue more restrictive and complicated means to impose trade levies.

The expected time frame of the meeting means officials will only have about two weeks until the leaders’ summit to finalise any business deals and logistical arrangements of Mr Trump’s visit.

Mr Trump in January said he was looking forward to Mr Xi putting on the “biggest display you’ve ever had in the history of China” for him, noting the Chinese leader treated him “so well” during his 2017 trip.

On that visit, the US leader was granted a private tour of Beijing’s Forbidden City.

###### More on this topic

##### Iran attack a major triumph for Trump, strengthening his hand ahead of China visit

##### Trump’s trip to Beijing could be cancelled after US-Israel strikes on Iran: Analyst

Months later, Mr Trump began his first trade war with the world’s second-largest economy.

The He meeting with Mr Bessent and US Trade Representative Jamieson Greer, along with broader economic talks, are being kept separate from other geopolitical aspects of the US-China relationship, according to a person familiar with the matter.

While neither Iran nor Venezuela are considered key trade or defence partners for China, Mr Trump’s escalating campaign of regime change has fuelled uncertainty about whether the US president could target a leader with closer links to Mr Xi.

The turmoil in the Middle East is also unfolding as the Chinese president heads into one of China’s most-important political weeks during which officials will unveil the economic growth goal for 2026.

Mr Bessent, Mr Greer and Mr He have a history of bilateral negotiations.

They met in Geneva last May to launch a series of talks that saw follow-on sessions in London, Stockholm, Madrid and Kuala Lumpur.

That resulted in a truce under which Washington and Beijing lowered tariffs and export restrictions.

Negotiators most recently met informally on the sidelines of the World Economic Forum in Switzerland earlier in 2026.

Speaking from Davos in January, Mr Greer said the two sides could try to move past highly sensitive issues such as technology competition in talks ahead of Mr Trump’s visit to China and try to reach an agreement on trade in non-sensitive sectors. BLOOMBERG

###### More on this topic

##### Taiwan says it hopes Iran’s people can soon enjoy freedom and democracy

##### Trump to travel to China from March 31 to April 2, with US tariffs in focus

###### See more on

Donald Trump

Xi Jinping

China

United States

Trade

Back to top

E-paper

Newsletters

Podcasts

RSS Feed

About Us

Terms & Conditions

Privacy Policy

Need help? Reach us here.

Advertise with us

Download the app

Get unlimited access to exclusive stories and incisive insights from the ST newsroom

Subscribe

MDDI (P) 046/10/2025. Published by SPH Media Limited, Co. Regn. No.202120748H. Copyright © 2026 SPH Media Limited. All rights reserved.