Webflow buys AI content-generation platform Vidoso to bolster its marketing suite

Ivan Mehta

10:00 AM PDT · March 12, 2026

Webflow, which offers a software platform for building and hosting websites, is acquiring AI-powered content-generation platform Vidoso to beef up its suite of marketing offerings.

Founded in 2024, Vidoso uses large language models to help organizations generate marketing collateral like images, presentations, video clips, blog posts, and social media content. For instance, the platform can turn a keynote talk or a panel discussion into short video clips or blog posts.

Vidoso’s team of four is joining Webflow full-time. Webflow didn’t disclose financial terms of the deal. Vidoso has raised a total of $3.7 million from Aspenwood Ventures, Emergent Ventures, and Tau Ventures, per PitchBook data.

“The acquisition is a small team; it’s four people. But the technology and what it does for Webflow sets a very different path [...] people have historically seen us as a website builder or CMS. We are an agentic marketing platform, and this is a major step in that direction,” WebFlow CEO Linda Tong told TechCrunch.

Tong believes AI tools are helping companies create assets and ads at a rapid speed, but different departments work in silos, which harms the end product. She thinks Webflow, with the new acquisition, can help companies tie together functions like the brand, demand generation, product marketing, and content.

“Frontier models are trained on the average of the internet, not on the specifics of your brand. The first wave of AI gave marketing teams powerful-but-ungoverned AI that is capable of generating generic content, but is blind to brand systems, rules, templates, and the approval workflows that keep enterprise marketing coherent. Vidoso was built to close that gap, making AI generation consistent, governed, and production-ready inside the systems marketing teams already use,” Vidoso’s CEO Sharad Verma said in a statement.

Webflow, which has raised over $330 million in funding to date, has been focusing on building out its marketing suite for a few years. The company acquired website personalization startup Intellimize in 2024, and earlier this year, launched a Google Ads integration for better performance tracking.

However, the company will be competing with a huge influx of startups trying to automate marketing functions using AI, as well as the large number of marketing tools that Big Tech firms have baked into their products.

Tong thinks that despite all this competition, Webflow’s offerings for content creation, campaign management, and performance tracking will attract more customers to its platform.

“If you’re just creating a bunch of assets and deploying them, you now need to capture insights, analyze it yourself and then put it back into the learning system. So it’s not actually self-learning. So you’re breaking a huge part of the lifecycle of the success of that content. Whereas within Webflow, you get that full cycle,” she said.