U.S. President Donald Trump vowed on Monday to continue Washington’s assault on Iran for as long as it takes. “Right from the beginning we projected four to five weeks, but we have the capability to go far longer than that,” Trump said during his first public comments since U.S. and Israeli airstrikes on Iran began on Saturday. Following a similar statement from the U.S. Defense Department, it appears that Washington is preparing for the possibility of a drawn-out conflict.

During a public briefing at the Pentagon on Monday, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth and Gen. Dan Caine, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, announced that more U.S. troops are heading to the Middle East. “This work is just beginning and will continue,” Caine said, adding that bigger waves of U.S. strikes are still to come.

At the same time, Hegseth stressed that Operation Epic Fury will not be like the protracted Iraq War. “This is not endless,” Hegseth said. However, he declined to rule out U.S. boots on the ground in Iran.

Iran has also expressed its willingness to continue the fight. Tehran “has prepared itself for a long war,” Iranian security chief Ali Larijani wrote on X on Monday as Iranian forces continued to launch strikes at Israel and Persian Gulf countries.

Meanwhile, “the official message coming from Jerusalem on this is that this will last as long as it takes,” Eyal Hulata, a former head of Israel’s National Security Council, told FP’s World Brief. “Having said that, Israel is not built for long wars in general—definitely not a long war as it comes to Iran. So, I think in many ways, what will determine the length of this war will be more of decisions made in Washington than decisions made in Jerusalem.”

That decision looks to be one of continuous fighting—at least, for now. “We’re destroying Iran’s missile capability, and we’re doing that hourly,” Trump said on Monday, adding that U.S. strikes are “annihilating” Tehran’s navy and ensuring that the Iranian regime “can never obtain a nuclear weapon.” Since Saturday, the United States and Israel have struck more than 2,000 targets in Iran, according to military officials. In response, Tehran has launched a slew of retaliatory attacks targeting Israel and at least eight other countries (Bahrain, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates).

Hundreds of people have been killed thus far, including senior Iranian leaders, such as Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei; six U.S. service members; and at least 165 individuals killed during a missile strike on a girls’ school in southern Iran.

The war has also spooked oil and gas markets and raised fears of a larger regional war.

The White House has offered several rationales for why it launched the war against Iran, including its nuclear program, ballistic missiles, and support for terrorist proxy groups in the Middle East. On Monday, Trump reiterated that Iran’s ballistic missile program was growing “rapidly and dramatically, and this posed a clear, colossal threat to America and our forces stationed overseas.” However, the U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency estimated last year that “should Tehran decide to pursue the capability,” it would likely take it around a decade to build missiles capable of reaching the U.S. homeland.

Hegseth and Caine, along with Secretary of State Marco Rubio and CIA Director John Ratcliffe, are expected to brief the full House and Senate on the war on Tuesday.