Could the UK go to war with Iran? Britain’s situation explained

As America and Israel’s war with Iran spreads across the Gulf, so too does the prospect of Britain being dragged more directly into the escalating conflict.

Iran has launched massive missile and drone attacks across the Middle East, targeting military bases and civilian sites in Israel, Qatar, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Bahrain and Kuwait.

Britain had already scrambled fighter jets to defend allied airspace from waves of attack drones and cruise missiles. It is now also facilitating US airstrikes against Iranian storage depots and missile launchers by allowing American aircraft to use joint bases as launchpads.

Sir Keir Starmer stressed that it was for the “specific and limited defensive purpose” of preventing further Iranian attacks that have endangered hundreds of British lives at military bases across the region since Saturday.

Where are British troops based in the Middle East?

The UK has three permanent military sites in the Middle East, as well as an RAF base in Cyprus.

Bahrain is home to the UK Naval Support Facility, where hundreds of sailors, officers, Royal Marines and other personnel command multinational maritime operations and train allied navies to carry out amphibious assaults.

The Royal Navy has one warship, HMS Middleton, stationed at the base, after withdrawing its last frigate late last year. The minehunter is the UK’s sole ship operating in the region.

Royal Marines are also stationed at a joint naval support facility in Duqm, Oman, which was opened in 2018. As a permanent maritime base outside the Gulf and a maintenance facility, it supports the UK’s aircraft carriers when they are in the Indian Ocean.

RAF personnel have operated from the Donnelly Lines military facility at al-Minhad air base in the UAE since March 2024. Named after the Second World War pilot William Donnelly, the centre is a relatively small military facility equipped with a headquarters to support operations across the Middle East.

In the Mediterranean, the UK uses RAF Akrotiri as a forward base for mounting overseas operations in the Middle East. It is home to about 4,000 British troops and their families, and is the largest permanent RAF base outside the UK. RAF Typhoon and F-35 fighter jets, Globemaster transport aircraft, air-to-air refuelling tankers and reconnaissance aircraft all operate from the base.

The UK also has access to the US-run al-Udeid air base in Qatar, from which Typhoons take off to intercept attack drones and cruise missiles fired at Gulf allies.

How have British forces been targeted?

On Saturday, 300 British personnel came within 200m of an Iranian missile and drone strike on the US naval base in Bahrain’s capital, Manama.

A strike on the US naval base in Bahrain

@ENMEHRNEWS

No casualties were reported from the strike, which was one of more than 25 waves of retaliatory attacks in response to the US-Israeli joint bombing campaign launched against Iran that day.

In Iraq, an Iranian missile landed 400m away from British troops stationed at a coalition base as part of operations against Islamic State.

John Healey, the defence secretary, said British troops and civilians were at risk of “indiscriminate attacks” by the Iranian regime. He added that two ballistic missiles were also fired towards Cyprus, though he was “pretty sure” it was not being targeted.

At 9pm on Sunday, Starmer announced that the UK had given the US permission to mount strikes against Iran from joint bases.

An hour later, a one-way “kamikaze” drone hit the runway of RAF Akrotiri. The strike, believed to have been by an Iranian-made Shahed drone, caused minimal damage and there were no casualties, but the families of service personnel are being evacuated and the base is on high alert for further attacks.

Due to the time taken for the drone to reach the base, the UK believes it was likely to have been launched before the prime minister’s announcement.

What defensive action has Britain been taking?

On Saturday British fighter jets from RAF Akrotiri and al-Udeid were deployed to shoot down drones and slower-moving cruise missiles launched by Iran.

It is understood that four RAF Typhoons from 12 Squadron took to the skies at the request of the Qatari government.

John Healey has described RAF Typhoons as the “backbone” of UK and Nato air defence

LEON NEAL/GETTY IMAGES

One drone, heading towards Qatar, was shot down by a Typhoon using an air-to-air missile during a “defensive air patrol”, the Ministry of Defence said.

A British counter-drone unit in Iraq also destroyed an Iranian drone that was flying in the direction of a coalition base housing UK service personnel.

Britain is also sending Ukrainian experts to the Middle East to help allies in the region intercept waves of attack drones launched by Iran.

Starmer said: “We will also bring experts from Ukraine, together with our own experts, to help Gulf partners shoot down Iranian drones attacking them.”

Will Britain get more involved in the conflict?

The prime minister has stated that Britain remains opposed to launching its own “offensive” attacks against Iranian targets with fighter jets.

However, he has given the US permission to use Diego Garcia, a joint military base in the Indian Ocean, and RAF Fairford, in Gloucestershire, for “defensive” airstrikes that would knock out Iranian capabilities at their source.

The Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) has since threatened further strikes on bases in Cyprus, saying the US has moved most of its planes to the island, according to Iranian media.

Justin Crump, a defence analyst, warned that persistent Iranian attacks, the deaths of British personnel or the further targeting of British interests could force the government to take offensive action. He told The Times that the biggest factor that could prompt Britain to join the fight would be if Gulf allies began striking Iran and requested assistance.

“If our Gulf allies — the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait — all of which are getting harder hit at home, join in then it becomes more reasonable for us to join,” he said. “Additionally, if France or Germany get involved then the pressure would mount on us.”

Any deaths of British civilians in Dubai could equally be a factor that could lead to more direct military intervention, he added.

Could Iran strike the UK mainland?

Iran has deployed a combination of suicide drones and ballistic missiles for its attacks across the region.

The one-way drone that struck the Cyprus base carries an integrated warhead and is designed to detonate on impact.

Among Iran’s arsenal is its famous Shahed-136 drone, which has been extensively used by Russia on the battlefield in Ukraine, as well as Gerbera and Gerund alternatives. The weapons cost about $35,000 to produce and have a maximum range of some 1,250 miles.

The regime also possesses a variety of short and medium-range ballistic missiles. Among the most formidable is the Sejjil, which can travel up to 1,500 miles and carries a single 700kg warhead.

However, the range of these weapons would only allow Iran to strike as far as Israel and parts of southeast Europe such as Greece, but not reach Britain.

Crump said it was more likely that Iran would launch “asymmetric attacks” on the UK homeland, activating cells of agents to carry out terror attacks which could trigger a military response from the government.