Roughly 3 in 4 oppose sending US ground troops into Iran: Survey

by Max Rego- 03/09/26 6:31 PM ET

by Max Rego- 03/09/26 6:31 PM ET

NOW PLAYING

Nearly three-quarters of respondents to a new Quinnipiac University poll do not support the U.S. sending ground troops into Iran, as the conflict in the Middle East hits 10 days on Monday.

The survey, released Monday, found that 20 percent of respondents support such a move, while 74 percent oppose it. Just 3 percent of Democrats, 19 percent of independents and 37 percent of Republicans support putting boots on the ground.

More than half of surveyed Republicans, in fact, are against such an action. Some members of President Trump’s MAGA base, including former Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene(R-Ga.) and Tucker Carlson, have criticized the president and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu for launching the war.

Trump has left the door open to putting boots on the ground in Iran, telling reporters Saturday he “possibly” could do so.

“[It would] have to be [for] a very good reason,” the president said on Air Force One. “And I would say if we ever did that, [Iran] would be so decimated that they wouldn’t be able to fight at the ground level.”

Seven U.S. service members on American bases in the Middle East have died from Iranian retaliation since the operation began on Feb. 28.

On Monday, the president told the New York Post he is “nowhere near” sending troops to safeguard nuclear material in Isfahan, Iran. The New York Times reported Saturday that Iran could recover enriched uranium buried underground at the Isfahan site, which was bombed by the U.S. last summer.

Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth also refused to rule out deploying ground forces to Iran during a “ 60 Minutes” interview that aired Sunday.

“We would be completely unwise if we did not reserve the right to take any particular option, whether it included boots on the ground or no boots on the ground,” Hegseth told CBS News’s Major Garrett.

Regarding the joint U.S.-Israeli war with Iran more broadly, just 38 percent of respondents to the Quinnipiac poll approve of how Trump is handling the situation, while 57 percent disapprove. That includes 5 percent of Democrats, 29 percent of independents and 84 percent of Republicans.

The Quinnipiac survey was conducted via phone interviews with 1,002 registered voters from March 6-8. It has a margin of error of 3.8 percentage points.

Add as preferred source on Google

Benjamin Netanyahu Donald Trump Major Garrett Marjorie Taylor Greene Pete Hegseth Tucker Carlson

---

Copyright 2026 Nexstar Media Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.