USA TODAY - Breaking News and Latest News Today

50K troops deployed; Pentagon IDs soldiers killed: Iran war updates

'Typical behavior': What to know from the Hillary Clinton deposition

Michael Jackson sued for child sex trafficking by ex-family friends

Primary election updates: Crockett, Talarico clash in bitter Texas race

‘Draft Barron Trump’ calls for Barron to join US strikes in Iran

Watch Tim Tebow's impassioned testimony to Congress

Burger King makes subtle jab at McDonald's CEO with taste test

Featured Videos

For You

Which topics matter most to you? Add your favorites and you’ll see more of these stories in the For You section. View For You

More Top Stories

10 running shoes I'm eyeing for my next workout—from…

Introducing USA TODAY Women of the Year 2026

Trump’s Iran war sends Congress scrambling

Dad guilty of murder, manslaughter in landmark school…

Here's when to look for the next total lunar eclipse

Messi showed 'desire to win' before White House visit

Trump: 'I really don't care' if Iran goes to World Cup

Tyler Perry slams sexual assault lawsuit from 'Madea…

Some horror fans disappointed with 'Scream 7' Ghostface…

'Conflict arises from ignorance.' Melania Trump chairs…

Smoothie King workers let go after refusing service to…

How one Republican could unleash Senate chaos over…

Discover

See images as US, Israel launch strikes on Iran March Madness prediction: Who could be final No. 1… 'Alpine divorce' is a viral new dating term. It's…

How to go to sleep fast and stay asleep through the night

Shopping

Why are travelers obsessed with Paire’s Lipstick… ☀️ Save 20% on derm-approved EltaMD sunscreens for spring… Throwback style: Shop these adidas World Cup throwback… Plan your visit to an 84° indoor water park at Great Wolf…

Sports

NFL franchise tag deadline winners and losers: Who fared… NFL free agency: Ranking top 100 available players after… Wearing USA jerseys in WBC exhibition means everything to… Bracketology: Big changes to bracket and bubble for NCAA…

Entertainment

'Love is Blind' stars say Trump dealbreakers weren't… Jimmy Kimmel, more late-night hosts slam Trump amid… March Madness bracket for LA’s worst intersections kicks… ¿Quién es Mr. Fronzi en SNL? El emotivo homenaje de…

Politics

'Typical behavior': What to know from the Hillary Clinton… Bill Clinton speaks on hot tub photo in Epstein testimony Trump addresses rising oil prices in US-Iran war Drone strike near US consulate in Dubai

Pets

Bissell's new robot vacuum is a must-have for pet owners Watch 'Love is Blind': Pet edition Watch terminally ill dog receive love from strangers on… Road trip tips for you and your dog

News in Pictures

Voters turn out for Primary Day in Arkansas, North… All the celebrity sightings (so far) from Milan Fashion… NHL trade tracker: Who changed teams in 2025-26 Search for Nancy Guthrie and kidnapping suspect continues

Trending Video

Punch forever. See viral baby monkey be immortalized with… Watch this girl's reaction when her dad returns home on… See Charlie Kirk banner at Education Department building How to program a garage door opener in seconds

Money

How to protect your 401(k) when stocks plummet Mega Millions jackpot hits $473M for March 3. See winning… Over 14,000 child car seats recalled. See the affected… You could save $5,000 on a Rivian R1T as electric pickup…

Real Estate

Find your dream home — start your search today Need an agent who listens? These pros get it. Get a real home value — not just a guess Are the lights on your neighbor's home too bright? Here's…

Wellness

After decades of decline, rectal cancer is rising What a cardiologist of 20 years eats in a day She needed time off and got no paid leave. Then… Kelly Osbourne's appearance sparked chatter. Here’s the…

Just Curious

How to read 'Bridgerton' in order: All love stories in… How to go to sleep fast and stay asleep through the night Are you getting enough vitamin D3? What you need to know. Tea or coffee? What the science really says

Opinion

Trump gives no clear reason for Iran war, so you get to… 'Scream' taught us how to be final girls. Its latest… Calling US strikes on Iran 'unprovoked' ignores history 'Industry' finale reflects the depravity of our real-life…

Travel

Nearly 80 sick in suspected norovirus outbreak on cruise… Bedbugs are back: Why the South is seeing a resurgence State Department updates travel advisories for Middle… Think fall travel is cheaper? The off-season is fading…

Investigations

They went to jail for minor crimes. Sepsis was a death… Cash vanished from charity raffles at NHL, NBA games A $2B NHL team seized control of youth hockey. Parents… Top Trump officials' stock sales clustered before tariff…

U.S. News

From Boy Scout to soldier: Iowa remembers reservist… Names of four US soldiers killed in Iran released Freedom Plane takes flight with Declaration, Constitution… Florida executes inmate 35 years after police officer's…

USA TODAY 10BEST

I stayed at Taylor Swift’s rumored wedding venue: What to… How to make your home smell like a luxury hotel What do Jedi smell like? Turns out, cardamom This Kate Spade crossbody dropped to $58: ‘Perfect for…

Tech

Is Facebook down? Thousands of users report outage March 3 ¿Vale la pena el iPhone 17e por $599? Esto es lo que… The new iPad Air is here. See price, colors, and… The iPhone 17e is here. What to know about price, colors…

Why is the US at war with Iran? We asked readers, reporters answered. 'Deadliest Catch' star dies at 25 at sea Maps show why Iran closing the Strait of Hormuz may impact gas prices Florida executes inmate 35 years after police officer's 'horrific murder' Pentagon IDs 4 US soldiers killed in Iran war: What to know Bad Bunny sets all-time record with Super Bowl halftime show 'Everything went downhill': Travelers are anxious about going abroad Marked for death: How Oct. 7 attack sealed Khamenei's fate