Apple acquires video editing software company MotionVFX | TechCrunch

Image Credits: Justin Sullivan/ Getty Images

Apps

# Apple acquires video editing software company MotionVFX

Aisha Malik

12:23 PM PDT · March 16, 2026

Apple has acquired MotionVFX, a company that develops plug-ins, templates, and advanced capabilities for Apple’s Final Cut Pro video editing software. The financial terms of the deal are unknown.

“We are extremely excited to share that MotionVFX is joining the Apple team to continue to empower creators and editors to do their best work,” MotionVFX said in a message on its website. “For over 15 years, we’ve been on a mission to create world-class, visually inspiring content and effects for video editors. From the very beginning, we’ve been all about quality, ease of use, and great design. These are also the values that we admire most in Apple’s products, and we’re thrilled to be able to embrace them together.”

Apple, which rarely publicly discloses its acquisitions, did not respond to TechCrunch’s request for comment. TechCrunch will update this article if Apple responds.

MotionVFX, a Warsaw-based company founded in 2009, offers subscription packages starting at $29 per month for access to its professional-grade video editing tools, graphics, and templates. Apple’s acquisition of the company will likely see MotionVFX’s tools integrated into the tech giant’s services.

Additionally, the move could help Apple better compete with Adobe Premiere Pro, and the entire Adobe Creative Cloud suite.

In January, Apple launched Creator Studio, a subscription bundle that offers access to six creative apps as well as premium content in iWork apps. The bundle costs $12.99 per month or $129 per year and includes access to Final Cut Pro, Logic Pro, and Pixelmator Pro on Mac and iPad, as well as Motion, Compressor, and MainStage on Mac. It also includes premium content for Keynote, Pages, and Numbers.

By acquiring MotionVFX, Apple is looking to attract more subscribers to its Creator Studio bundle.

Apple’s services business has become one of its largest growth drivers in recent years. In the last fiscal year, the segment accounted for more than 26% of revenue, a notable increase from the 8.5% reported in 2015.