February 28, 2026 — US-Israeli strikes on Iran | CNN

Three people in the United Arab Emirates have been killed in Iran’s retalitory strikes, the country’s Ministry of Defense said in a statement on Sunday.

Those killed were nationals of Pakistan, Nepal and Bangladesh who died as a result of Iranian drones that made it through the UAE air defenses, causing damage on the ground, the Defense Ministry said. At least 58 other people have experienced minor injuries.

In total, Iran launched 165 ballistic missiles on the UAE, of which 152 were destroyed by the country’s air defenses and 13 fell into the sea, the ministry said. A further two cruise missiles were detected and destroyed.

The ministry also said Iran launched a total of 541 drones, of which 506 were intercepted, while 35 fell within the country’s territory.

“Some debris fell in scattered areas of the country as a result of air defense systems intercepting ballistic missiles and drones, leading to minor and moderate material damage in a number of civilian properties,” the ministry’s statement added.

Six killed in direct missile hit on residential building near Jerusalem, Israel police say

Israeli police say the death toll has risen to six after an Iranian missile slammed into a residential building near Jerusalem. More than 20 people are being treated in hospital.

Debris from an intercepted Iranian drone damaged a complex in Abu Dhabi that houses the Israeli embassy and other diplomatic missions.

A woman and her child were injured in the incident, which damaged the facade of one of the Etihad Towers buildings, the Abu Dhabi Media Office said.

Three people were killed and 58 injured after Iran launched 165 ballistic missiles, 541 drones and 2 cruise missiles on the UAE since Saturday, the UAE’s defense ministry said in a statement.

The majority of projectiles were intercepted, according to the defense ministry, but 35 drones made impact.

Five people were killed in a direct missile hit on a residential building near Jerusalem, Israel police said in a statement on Sunday afternoon.

Approximately 18 people were injured in the strike on the city of Beit Shemesh, police said.

“As a result of the direct hit, severe damage and collapse of the building occurred,” police said.

Nearly 20 people were injured, including two critically, as an Iranian missile hit a residential building near Jerusalem, according to Israel’s emergency response service.

Two more were seriously injured, including a 10-year-old girl, Magen David Adom (MDA) said, and one person was moderately wounded.

Video from the scene from MDA showed firefighters trying to douse flames and smoke rising from what appears to be a major impact site.

This appears to be one of the few direct impacts on Israel despite waves of Iranian retaliatory attacks. We’ll bring you more as we get it.

A senior Iranian official has said Iran has no intention of attacking other countries in the region – only the US bases on their territory.

The head of Iran’s National Security Council, Ali Larijani, said such US military facilities “are not the territory of the countries of the region, they are the territory of the United States. We do not intend to attack the countries of the region.”

“We had told the United States through the Swiss embassy that if you attack this time, we will hit your bases,” he said in remarks carried by state media.

Many of the Iranian attacks since Saturday have struck civilian infrastructure in the Gulf, including airports in Dubai and Kuwait, hotels and other buildings. Dozens of missiles and drones have targeted the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Qatar, Kuwait, Jordan and Saudi Arabia.

“We had many casualties in the previous war, but yesterday the number of our martyrs was very small,” Larijani claimed.

“The armed forces, with experience from the previous war, are in control.”

Pope Leo XIV expressed “deep concern” about Iran and the wider Middle East, calling for an end to “the spiral of violence before it becomes an irreparable abyss.”

Pope Leo added that he has appealed to the parties involved to cease the violence, warning of the “possibility of a tragedy of enormous proportions.”

Smoke rises following an explosion in Tehran, Iran on Sunday.

It has been more than a day since the United States and Israel launched strikes on cities across Iran, which we have since learned killed the country’s supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Hosseini Khamenei, alongside several members of his family as well as other powerful Iranian officials.

Tehran retaliated by launching attacks towards multiple countries in the region, which have continued into today. CNN teams have reported blasts in several capitals and major cities this morning, including Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Doha and Bahrain’s Manama.

Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian has said Iran views revenge for the attacks by Israel and the United States as its “legitimate right and duty.”

In a statement issued Sunday on Iranian state media, Pezeshkian said that the Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei had been killed “at the hands of the most wicked villains in the world.”

“The Islamic Republic of Iran considers bloodshed and revenge against the perpetrators and commanders of this historical crime as its duty and legitimate right will fulfil this great responsibility and duty with all its might,” Pezeshkian said.

He said that the killing of Khamenei was a “declaration of open war on Muslims, especially Shiites, in all corners of the world.”

Iran is majority Shiite, as is Iraq, while the populations of most Gulf countries and that of Egypt are predominantly Sunni Muslims.

The US Embassy in Jordan warned US citizens on Sunday to avoid the diplomatic compound “as it may be targeted.”

In addition, the US Embassy in Qatar advised that “all non-essential personnel should avoid all military installations.”

The explicit warnings come as Iran has launched a barrage of attacks on countries throughout the region, especially those housing US military installations, following strikes by the US and Israel on Iran. US diplomatic facilities in Iraq and Pakistan were also targeted by pro-Iranian protesters on Sunday.

The US Embassy Jordan alert noted that the embassy “has instructed all Mission personnel to continue to shelter-in-place and avoid the U.S. Embassy Amman compound, as it may be targeted.”

“All Americans should exercise increased vigilance and avoid the U.S Embassy facility,” the embassy said in the alert, posted on X.

The US Embassy Qatar alert noted that it “continues to maintain a shelter-in-place for all personnel. We recommend all Americans do the same until further notice.”

“Please remain vigilant, as the Iranian government and its proxies may seek to target Americans in retaliation for U.S. strikes against Iran,” the alert advised.