Iran has named interim leadership in the wake of the U.S. and Israel’s joint strike that killed Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, according to Iranian state television.

In a post on the social media platform X on Sunday, Iranian state television Press TV said members of an interim leadership council include Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian, Guardian Council jurist member Ayatollah Alireza Arafi and head of the Iranian judiciary Gholam-Hossein Mohseni-Eje’i.

On Saturday, the U.S. and Israel launched strikes against Iran after weeks of tension between the Americans and Iranians. Shortly after the strikes, Iran retaliated by attacking Israel and Gulf states, including Saudi Arabia and Qatar.

President Trump announced Saturday afternoon that Khamenei was killed, after multiple news outlets reported that he had been killed via an Israeli strike. Later Saturday, Iranian state media confirmed the death.

“Khamenei, one of the most evil people in History, is dead,” Trump said on Truth Social.

“This is not only Justice for the people of Iran, but for all Great Americans, and those people from many Countries throughout the World, that have been killed or mutilated by Khamenei and his gang of bloodthirsty THUGS,” he added.

Although the leadership council announced Sunday will govern in the interim, an 88-member panel known as the Assembly of Experts “must” pick a new supreme leader “as soon as possible” under Iranian law, The Associated Press reported.

The State Department on Saturday urged Americans to “exercise increased caution” following U.S. military action in Iran.

“Following the launch of U.S. combat operations in Iran, Americans worldwide and especially in the Middle East should follow the guidance in the latest security alerts issued by the nearest U.S. embassy or consulate,” the State Department said in a security alert.

---

Copyright 2026 Nexstar Media Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.