The U.S. military has not yet ​escorted any commercial ships through the Strait of Hormuz, the ‌White House said on Tuesday (March 10, 2026), just after U.S. Secretary ​of Energy Chris Wright deleted a post ⁠on X in which had said the U.S. Navy successfully escorted an oil tanker through the key water way.

U.S. military destroys at least 16 Iranian mine-laying vessels ‘near Strait of Hormuz’

The U.S.-Israel war against ‌Iran has already effectively halted shipments through the Strait along Iran’s coast, where a fifth of global ‌oil and liquefied natural gas normally passes, and ‌West Asia oil producers have run out of storage ⁠and stopped pumping.

Israel-Iran war LIVE

U.S. President Donald Trump said on March 3 that the U.S. would provide protection through the Strait for oil tankers. The Pentagon ​on Tuesday (March 10, 29026) renewed threats ‌to hit Iran harder unless shipments can flow through and said it was striking Iranian mine-laying vessels and mine storage facilities.

Mr. Wright then posted on X that the ‌U.S. Navy had escorted an oil tanker through the ​Strait of Hormuz “to ensure oil remains flowing to global markets.”

Soon after, he deleted the post for ⁠reasons that were unclear.

U.S. urges Israel to stop attacks on Iran energy sites: report

The United States has not yet escorted any oil tankers or vessels through the Strait of Hormuz, ‌White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt told reporters when asked about the issue at a press conference later on Tuesday (March 10, 2026).

Commenting on Mr. Wright’s remarks, a spokesperson for Iran’s Revolutionary Guards denied an oil ship had been escorted. “Any movement of the U.S. fleet and its allies will be stopped ‌by our missiles and drones,” Ali Mohammad Naini said in comments ​carried by Iranian state media.

Strait of Hormuz could be a ‘Strait of defeat’ for U.S.: Larijani

The top U.S. general earlier said the U.S. military has ⁠started looking at ways to potentially escort ships through the Strait ⁠of Hormuz, should it be ordered to do so. “We’re looking at a range of options ‌there,” General Dan Caine told reporters at the Pentagon.