UK forces join 'regional defensive operations' as US, Israel strike Iran | Reuters | 2026-02-28: In LONDON on Feb. 28, Prime Minister Keir Starmer said British forces and planes were taking part in "coordinated regional defensive operations" to protect the UK's people, interests and allies, but "were not taking part in U.S. and Israeli strikes against Iran." He said "Our forces are active and British planes are in the sky today" and that protections for British bases and personnel had been stepped up to "their highest level." The strikes, which targeted Iran's top leaders, "plunged the Middle East into a conflict" that U.S. President Donald Trump said would end "a security threat to the United States" and give Iranians a chance to topple their rulers. Starmer posted his video statement on X after a COBRA emergency meeting and calls with his French and German counterparts; in a joint statement, the leaders condemned "Iranian attacks on countries in the region in the strongest terms" and urged a "resumption of negotiations" and a "negotiated solution." Starmer also said Iran must never be allowed to develop nuclear weapons, called the regime "utterly abhorrent," and said "Iran can end this conflict now" if it refrained from further strikes, gave up its weapons programmes, and ceased "the appalling violence and repression against the Iranian people." The UK government issued a notice advising against all travel to Israel and the Palestinian territories, urged citizens to seek shelter in Gulf states, and said it had moved embassy staff from Tel Aviv to another location in Israel on Friday, Feb. 27; the government did not respond to a request for details on the "defensive operations." Sam Tabahriti reported; Aidan Lewis and Sharon Singleton edited. ### Germany, France and UK tell Iran to stop attacks in region | Reuters | 2026-02-28: In BERLIN on Feb. 28, Germany, France and Britain issued a joint statement—signed by French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Friedrich Merz and British Prime Minister Keir Starmer—condemning Iranian attacks on countries in the region "in the strongest terms," saying Iran must refrain from "indiscriminate military strikes" and calling for "a resumption of negotiations" so the Iranian leadership would seek "a negotiated solution." The leaders said they had consistently urged Iran to end its nuclear programme, curb its ballistic missile program, refrain from destabilizing activity in the region and cease "appalling violence and repression against its own people," adding that "the Iranian people must be allowed to determine their future." They said their countries did not participate in the strikes on Saturday and were in close contact with international partners including the U.S., Israel and partners in the region, while reiterating commitment to regional stability and the protection of civilian life. ### USA TODAY - Breaking News and Latest News Today | 2026-02-28: USA TODAY’s breaking-news feed on Feb. 28 carried a mix of unrelated headlines, including "Can Trump deport migrants coming from dangerous conditions? SCOTUS to weigh in" (about the Supreme Court considering whether President Trump can deport migrants coming from dangerous conditions), reports that Democrats referred Kristi Noem to the DOJ for investigation into perjury, an awkward moment after Trump revealed Rep. Neal Dunn’s terminal diagnosis, a Costco recall of a pre-made meal kit over a salmonella risk, "President Trump says US could soon reach deal with Cuba," a drone attack that ignited a fuel tank fire at Dubai airport, "Oklahoma, San Diego State lead March Madness snubs," tips for starting a March Madness bracket, Michael B. Jordan seen at In-N-Out with an Oscar, Amazon’s Big Spring sale, Susie Wiles’ breast cancer diagnosis, Timothée Chalamet’s ballet-and-opera controversy, and a reference to "reading more" items in the "For You" feed. ### Reuters | Breaking International News & Views | 2026-02-28: In a Reuters LIVE update on Feb. 28, Iranian sources said Mojtaba Khamenei survived the assault on the country by U.S. and Israeli air strikes; the brief item identified Mojtaba Khamenei as the son of Iran’s late Supreme Leader and said two Iranian sources told Reuters he had survived. ### U.S., Israel Begin 'Major Combat Operations' in Iran as Trump Calls for Regime Change | 2026-02-28: In this account, U.S. President Donald Trump announced on Truth Social early Saturday that the U.S. military had begun "major combat operations in Iran" under the name Operation Epic Fury, saying the objective was to defend Americans by eliminating "imminent threats from the Iranian regime" and that the campaign targeted Iran’s top leaders. He listed grievances including the 1979 hostage crisis, the 1983 bombing of the U.S. Marine barracks in Lebanon by Hezbollah, attacks by proxy groups on U.S. forces in the Middle East, and the Hamas-led Oct. 7, 2023 attack on Israel; he also cited Iran’s nuclear program and told the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, Iran’s armed forces and police to "lay down your weapons and have complete immunity or, in the alternative, face certain death," while telling the Iranian people that "the hour of your freedom is at hand" and, after the operation, to "take over your government." Trump told The Washington Post around 4 a.m. that his main concern was "freedom" and wanting a "safe nation." Israel called its part a "pre-emptive attack against Iran to remove threats to the State of Israel," and an Israeli defense official told Reuters the operation had been planned for months in coordination with Washington, with the launch date decided weeks ago. The piece says an Israeli airstrike killed nearly 60 students at a girls’ school in the southern city of Minab, that Iran responded with ballistic missile barrages against Israel, and that Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said Iran would target all U.S. bases in the region. Iran’s Fars news agency said U.S. bases in Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Bahrain were being attacked; explosions were reported in Doha, Abu Dhabi and Iraq, and Kuwait, Jordan and the UAE said they intercepted missiles, with the UAE reporting debris caused "one civilian death of an Asian nationality" and material damage. Bahrain said a missile attack struck the U.S. Navy’s 5th Fleet at Naval Support Activity in Bahrain. Trump, Pete Hegseth and Gen. Dan Caine were monitoring the situation from Mar-a-Lago. The report says U.S. and Israeli strikes were expected to continue for several days; Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and other senior officials were reportedly targeted, and Iranian Defense Minister Amir Nasirzadeh and IRGC commander Mohammed Pakpour were reportedly killed though not officially confirmed. The New York Times obtained satellite imagery showing destroyed buildings in Khamenei’s official residence compound; Araghchi told NBC News from Tehran at about 5:30 p.m. local time that Khamenei was still alive "as far as I know," said regime change was "mission impossible," and said Tehran was targeting U.S. military bases in retaliation but not "Americans in their land," while also expressing willingness to resume dialogue to de-escalate. ### Iran is on 'death ground' amid existential threat from US attacks and could 'go big' in retaliation | Fortune | 2026-02-28: Fortune’s Feb. 28 piece by Weekend Editor Jason Ma, published at 12:17 PM ET, said Iran was on "death ground" amid an existential threat from U.S. attacks and could "go big" in retaliation, quoting a former NATO commander; the article used a photo by Jack Guez / AFP via Getty Images showing explosions from projectile interceptions by Israel’s Iron Dome missile defence system over Tel Aviv. ### Iran's Ayatollah Ali Khamenei is killed in Israeli strike, ending 36-year iron rule | 2026-02-28: This article, updated Sunday, March 1, 2026 at 12:03 PM EST, said Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei was killed in Israeli attacks, with U.S. support, on Saturday, Feb. 28, 2026, aged 86, ending his 36-year rule; President Trump confirmed his death and joined Israeli leaders in calling for the overthrow of Khamenei’s authoritarian regime, while the Israeli military said its forces killed him and Iran announced 40 days of mourning. It traced Khamenei’s life from his July 1939 birth in Mashhad, his opposition to the U.S.-backed Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, his arrest several times, his association with Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, an 1981 assassination attempt that cost him use of his right arm, and his succession to Khomeini in 1989. The article quoted Alex Vatanka of the Middle East Institute and Ali Vaez of the International Crisis Group on Khamenei’s lack of religious credentials, his reliance on the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, and his building of power through proxies such as Hezbollah in Lebanon and Hamas in the Gaza Strip and through Iran’s ballistic missile program; it noted his final word on the nuclear program, his 2009 intervention to ensure Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s election, the brutal crushing of protests, and human-rights reporting that more than 7,000 people were killed during mass protests starting in late December 2025. It also described secret 2013 negotiations that led to the 2015 JCPOA, Trump’s 2018 withdrawal, Iran’s increased enrichment, 2025 negotiations in early 2025 and mid-April, the June 2025 Israeli and U.S. strikes on nuclear facilities, and the fallout from the Oct. 7, 2023 Hamas attack, Hezbollah rocket fire, Israel-Iran direct airstrikes in 2024, the weakening of Bashar al-Assad, and the collapse of Iran’s air defenses and nuclear program. ### Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, has been killed | 2026-02-28: In this NPR-style report updated Saturday, Feb. 28, 2026 at 9:27 PM EST, Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, 86, was said to have been killed in a joint American-Israeli operation targeting Iran, with Iran’s state media confirming the death and the government announcing 40 days of mourning; the article said the attack was part of a major military campaign intended to topple the Islamic regime. Israel’s military said top Iranian security officials killed included the defense minister, the commander of the Revolutionary Guard Corps and the secretary of the Iranian Security Council, a close adviser to Khamenei. Trump posted on Truth Social that Israel, with U.S. support, had killed Khamenei and that "the heavy and pinpoint bombing" would continue "throughout the week or, as long as necessary to achieve our objective of PEACE THROUGHOUT THE MIDDLE EAST AND, INDEED, THE WORLD!" The report said the wave of airstrikes began after sunrise in Tehran, that Iran’s Foreign Ministry called it a "gross violation" of sovereignty and said military and civilian targets were hit, and that the Iranian Red Crescent said more than 200 people were killed; Iranian state media also said an airstrike hit a girls’ primary school in southern Iran, killing at least 85 children, with more girls buried in rubble. U.S. Central Command spokesperson Capt. Tim Hawkins said the U.S. was aware of reports of civilians being harmed and was looking into them, stressing it had never and would never target civilians. Iran responded with missile and drone launches across the wider region, with Israel under attack and Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Qatar, Bahrain and Kuwait also reporting strikes; Jordan said it downed 49 drones and ballistic missiles. Trump’s eight-minute video said the objective was to eliminate "imminent threats from the Iranian regime." The report said the joint attack, called "Epic Fury" by the Pentagon and "Roaring Lion" by Israel, followed weeks of escalating tensions and a major U.S. military buildup, with recent nuclear talks in Geneva on Thursday failing. It added that Trump wanted Iran’s missile industry "totally, again, obliterated" and its navy "annihilated," and that he told the IRGC to surrender—"Lay down your arms. You will be treated fairly with total immunity, or you will face certain death." The U.N. Secretary-General António Guterres condemned the strikes and warned of a grave threat to international peace and security, saying there was no viable alternative to peaceful settlement and genuine dialogue and negotiations. Israel said it completed its biggest air force operation in history, with about 200 fighter jets hitting about 500 targets in western and central Iran, and an Israeli official said the U.S. and Israeli militaries spent months building a target bank and struck three separate gatherings of senior officials simultaneously. The article noted that Araghchi had earlier told NBC News Khamenei and the president were still alive "as far as I know," and that Netanyahu said the goal was to remove the "existential threat" posed by the Iranian regime and create conditions for brave Iranians to take their destiny into their own hands. The piece said Israel closed its airspace, declared a 48-hour state of emergency, and activated civil defense protocols; Bahrain said an Iranian airstrike hit the U.S. naval base home to the Fifth Fleet, and the UAE said it intercepted missiles and that shrapnel killed a national of an unspecified Asian country in Abu Dhabi. White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt said Trump had spoken with leaders of Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, and NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte, and the report included contributions from NPR reporters Michele Kelemen, Aya Batrawy and Rebecca Rosman. ### Photos: War in the Middle East after US-Israel strikes on Iran | CNN | 2026-02-28: CNN’s photo package said the United States and Israel began joint attacks against Iran on Feb. 28, killing Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and that Iran responded with an unprecedented wave of strikes across the Middle East targeting Israel and countries hosting U.S. bases, including Bahrain and the UAE, while Israel and Hezbollah traded blows. It said Trump and Netanyahu said their objective was to defend their countries from imminent threats and prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon, without providing evidence Iran was closer to one, and that both leaders were clear about regime change: Trump told Iranians "the hour of your freedom is at hand," and Netanyahu urged them to "cast off the yoke of tyranny." The photo captions documented, among many scenes across the region, six U.S.