Elite US troops may launch ‘snatch raid’ on Iran’s nuclear stockpile, published 2026-03-11, says the Delta Force could be used for a covert “snatch operation” to seize enriched uranium if Tehran has not moved it, with American spy agencies constantly monitoring movements in and out of the Isfahan nuclear facility, where most of Iran’s enriched uranium is believed stored. Larisa Brown reports that the mission could be long planned by the Pentagon, which has already war-gamed securing the stockpile, and that Chris Steele, a former MI6 intelligence officer, warned “[The uranium] will be dispersed and if the Iranians had any sense they would have prepared contingencies.” A source said “[The Iranians] could be moving it every 24 hours or it might be sat in an underground bunker.” The article says elite troops, possibly Delta Force, may have created a replica of the storage facility to practise entry, with an advance party parachuting in under cover of darkness, then helicopters bringing in the rest of the troops, potentially with specialist scientists to handle the material. Helicopters would need to fly at “a very high or very low altitude” to avoid enemy radar, while a “massive air armada” would protect troops by “killing radar systems and air defence.” If tunnels were blocked, special forces might need “excavating equipment” and protective gear if gaseous uranium leaked. The piece says the mission could be “deadly” if anything goes wrong, even with a joint US-Israeli force. It notes the Iranian regime has not allowed inspection at Isfahan, Fordow or Natanz, all three “seriously damaged last June,” and says satellite images show craters from America’s bombs at Fordow, plus some work compatible with securing the sites but no serious reconstitution. It reports missile attacks caused “severe damage” to an irradiation sterilisation facility in Isfahan on Saturday, via Iran’s ISNA news agency. The article says Iran is believed to have “440kg of uranium enriched to 60 per cent,” enough if increased to 90 per cent to build “11 nuclear warheads,” and that not even the International Atomic Energy Agency knows the exact location of the entire stockpile or whether it is retrievable. It also says other possible sites include a back-up facility near Natanz, “80m to 100m underneath Pickaxe Mountain,” which Trump referenced on Air Force One as Iran trying to reconstitute its programme at a different site “protected by granite.” Trump, on Air Force One with Steve Witkoff and Pete Hegseth, said “It was a total obliteration, they haven’t been able to get to it,” and added, “At some point maybe we will. It would be a great thing. But right now we’re just decimating them. But we haven’t gone in. It’s something we can do later on.” The article also mentions Israel says it has evidence of secret sites, including Taleghan 2, a weaponisation test site hit by Israel in 2024 and allegedly being rebuilt. ### What happens if OpenAI or Anthropic fail? | Reuters, published 2026-03-11, argues the artificial intelligence boom would make for a nasty bust because Alphabet, Amazon.com, Meta Platforms and Microsoft plan to spend about $650 billion this year largely on chip-packed data centres for chatbots, much of it to serve cash-burning AI labs OpenAI and Anthropic, developers of ChatGPT and Claude. The column says these spending commitments are roughly equal to “2% of U.S. GDP last year,” and Morgan Stanley foresees “$2.9 trillion” of global data-centre investment between 2025 and 2028, with “roughly $900 billion” from private credit and asset-backed lending. It says Sam Altman has floated infrastructure build-out deals worth “$1.4 trillion,” requiring “30 gigawatts” of power, enough to supply “20 million U.S. households,” and that OpenAI may need “$207 billion” in additional financing by 2030. OpenAI just announced a “$110 billion” funding round: Amazon pledged “$50 billion,” beginning with an initial payment of “about $15 billion,” with further outlays tied to Altman leading the company onto public markets or surpassing artificial general intelligence; SoftBank is expected to add “$30 billion” and has a “negative credit outlook” from S&P Global as it explores a bridge loan of up to “$40 billion.” The piece says OpenAI topped “$25 billion in annualized revenue as of end of February,” up “25%” from end-December, but HSBC analysts estimated “almost $280 billion” of cash burn through end-2030. In a court filing, Anthropic’s CFO said the company had spent “over $10 billion” on training models and serving responses to user queries to generate “roughly $5 billion” of cumulative revenue. To support a mooted “$1 trillion IPO valuation,” OpenAI would need at least “$250 billion” in annual revenue by 2030; CNBC reported internal targets of “$280 billion.” Visible Alpha data put Nvidia and Alphabet at “5.6 times expected sales in 2030,” and applying a “30%” IPO discount underpins the $250 billion revenue requirement. The article says Microsoft said “45%” of its “$625 billion” demand backlog is tied to OpenAI, while Altman has inked a “$300 billion” deal with Oracle; together that is about “two-thirds of the $800 billion” HSBC says OpenAI could spend on chips and data centres. It says Anthropic faces extra uncertainty after a Pentagon battle: after CEO Dario Amodei resisted using Claude for mass surveillance or autonomous weapons, the Trump administration labelled Anthropic a “supply-chain risk,” with defense chief Pete Hegseth saying no government contractor can work with it; Anthropic sued claiming violations of free expression and due process, while Amazon, Alphabet and Microsoft say they will continue offering Claude. Wall Street is said to be questioning the boom’s sustainability, with credit-default swaps on Oracle at their highest since “2008” and Microsoft and Amazon shares sliding after reiterating capital-spending plans. ### What happens if OpenAI or Anthropic fail? | Reuters, published 2026-03-11, is the full Reuters Breakingviews version of the same analysis and repeats the key figures and claims: Big Tech’s “$650 billion” AI capex, “2%” of last year’s U.S. GDP, Morgan Stanley’s “$2.9 trillion” 2025-2028 data-centre forecast, Altman’s “$1.4 trillion” and “30 gigawatts” plan, the “$207 billion” extra OpenAI financing need, Amazon’s “$50 billion” pledge with “about $15 billion” upfront, SoftBank’s “$30 billion” expected contribution and “negative credit outlook” with a possible “$40 billion” bridge loan, OpenAI’s “$25 billion” annualized revenue and “25%” growth, HSBC’s “almost $280 billion” cash burn estimate, Anthropic’s “over $10 billion” spend and “roughly $5 billion” revenue, the “5.6 times” 2030 sales multiple, OpenAI’s “$250 billion” minimum 2030 revenue for a “$1 trillion” IPO, CNBC’s “$280 billion” target, Microsoft’s “45%” of “$625 billion” backlog tied to OpenAI, Altman’s “$300 billion” Oracle deal, the “$800 billion” OpenAI chip-and-data-centre spend estimate, and the Pentagon / supply-chain-risk dispute over Anthropic. ### What happens if OpenAI or Anthropic fail? | Reuters, published 2026-03-11, another Reuters copy of the column, again gives the same details: “$650 billion” in 2026 spending by Alphabet, Amazon, Meta and Microsoft; “2%” of U.S. GDP; “$2.9 trillion” global investment with “$900 billion” from private credit and asset-backed lending; “$1.4 trillion” of OpenAI infrastructure deals needing “30 gigawatts” and enough for “20 million U.S. households”; “$207 billion” extra financing needed by 2030; OpenAI’s “$110 billion” round; Amazon’s “$50 billion” pledge with “about $15 billion” initial payment; SoftBank’s “$30 billion” and “negative credit outlook” plus “$40 billion” bridge loan; OpenAI’s “$25 billion” annualized revenue and “25%” increase; “almost $280 billion” cash burn; Anthropic’s “over $10 billion” spend and “roughly $5 billion” revenue; the “5.6 times” expected sales multiple for Nvidia and Alphabet; the “30%” IPO discount and “$250 billion” annual revenue requirement for OpenAI’s “$1 trillion” valuation; CNBC’s “$280 billion” internal target; Microsoft’s “45%” of “$625 billion” backlog tied to OpenAI; Altman’s “$300 billion” Oracle deal; and the Trump administration’s “supply-chain risk” label on Anthropic and Hegseth’s assertion that no government contractor can work with it. ### Sitemap | Reuters, published 2026-03-11, is a Reuters news index item that includes a wide range of unrelated headlines, notably: “UK ends centuries-old hereditary seats in parliament upper chamber,” saying Britain’s parliament approved legislation removing remaining hereditary peers from the House of Lords; “France to provide 60 tons of humanitarian aid for Lebanon,” with French Foreign Minister Jean-Noel Barrot saying “60 metric tons”; “Spain to launch tool to monitor hate on social media, PM Sanchez says,” naming Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez; “Protests sweep around the globe as war in Iran continues,” citing ACLED and “the largest U.S. and Israeli attacks on Iran in decades”; “Pfizer, Teva lose bid to disqualify ex-prosecutor in generic drug price-fixing case”; “Canadian non-prime lender goeasy extends slide after major charge-off, forecast withdrawal,” with shares down “16%” after a charge-off of about “C$178 million”; “Argentina’s TGS to invest $3 bln in natural gas liquids project” in Vaca Muerta; “US launches unfair-trade probes to rebuild Trump’s tariff pressure,” with Jamieson Greer saying the investigation could lead to new tariffs against China, the EU, India, Japan, South Korea and Mexico by summer; “Hall of Fame cap saga ends for Andre Dawson”; “Barca prez candidate hopes Messi ‘tells the truth’ about failed return”; “Exclusive: Russia prepares 10% cut to ‘non-sensitive’ spending in 2026”; sports items including Kentucky’s “87-82” win over LSU with Otega Oweh’s “23 points,” Rockets’ “113-99” win over Raptors with Kevin Durant’s “29 points,” Auburn’s “79-61” win with Kevin Overton’s “22 points,” UCF’s “66-65” overtime win over Cincinnati, and Providence’s “91-81” comeback over Butler; “London-listed Capricorn Energy gets takeover proposals” from Alamadiyaf al-Masiyyah; “Austrian property tycoon Benko’s family trust files for insolvency”; “Bumble shares soar” about “20%” after revenue beat; “ECB’s Schnabel warns of scars from post-pandemic inflation spike”; “Italy’s Meloni criticises US war on Iran”; “Trump administration must make New York tunnel payments”; “Higher oil clouds Wall Street’s sunny earnings outlook”; “Israel sees no certainty Iran’s government will fall despite war”; “India, Gulf markets lower as Iran war risks weigh”; “Anduril to acquire space surveillance firm ExoAnalytic”; “Switzerland is temporarily closing its embassy in Tehran”; “WhatsaApp launches parent-managed accounts for pre-teens”; “Nvidia to invest $2 billion in neocloud Nebius”; “US to release 172 million barrels of oil from strategic petroleum reserve”; “IEA to recommend release of strategic oil stocks on Iran war, sources say”; “Iran has laid about a dozen mines in Strait of Hormuz”; and many other conflict, oil, and sports headlines. ### Could the US deploy troops to Iran, and how could that play out? | US-Israel war on Iran News | Al Jazeera, published 2026-03-11, says speculation was mounting on Wednesday, the 12th day of the US-Israeli war on Iran, over whether American soldiers would be deployed on the ground. Democratic Senator Richard Blumenthal said after a classified Senate Armed Services Committee briefing on Tuesday that he was “the angriest I had been in my political career” and “dissatisfied and angry,” warning he was concerned about “the threat to American lives” and that “We seem to be on a path toward deploying American troops on the ground in Iran.” Senator Chris Murphy also said officials could not detail a long-term plan. The report says Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth told CBS the U.S. is “willing to go as far as we need to” to ensure Iran’s “nuclear ambitions are never achieved,” while White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt said ground operations are “not part of the plan right now” but Trump is keeping options open. Secretary of State Marco Rubio said at a congressional briefing that the US needed to physically secure nuclear material in Iran and “People are going to have to go and get it.” The piece notes Trump had spoken to Iranian Kurdish rebel groups based in Iraq near the border with Iran, possibly as proxies. Polling showed about “74 percent” in a Quinnipiac survey opposed deploying US troops to Iran; a Reuters-Ipsos poll after the war began on February 28 found “43 percent” disapproved of the war, “29 percent” were unsure, and “one in four” approved. For context, it recounts recent U.S. interventions: Afghanistan in October 2001 under George W Bush, with “130,000” NATO soldiers and “170,000 to 210,000” deaths, and Iraq in March 2003 with about “295,000” soldiers and “between 150,000 and a million deaths,” while about “170,300” troops were withdrawn at the end in December 2011. It also cites Trump’s January 3 special forces mission in Venezuela that bombed air defences before a ground unit moved into Maduro’s Caracas compound, killing “at least 23” Venezuelan security officials and “32” Cuban nationals