Reuters’s “U.S., Kurds discuss potential Iran military operation, sources say” | 2026-03-04 reported from WASHINGTON, March 3 that Iranian Kurdish militias had consulted with the United States in recent days about whether, and how, to attack Iran’s security forces in the western part of the country, with the coalition of groups based on the Iran-Iraq border in the semiautonomous region of Iraqi Kurdistan training for such an operation in hopes of weakening Iran’s military while the United States and Israel “pound Iranian targets with bombs and missiles.” Two sources said the goal would be to create room for Iranians opposed to the Islamic regime to rise up now that Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei and other top officials “have been killed since the U.S.-Israeli attack began on Saturday”; a final decision had not been made on the operation or its timing. The groups requested U.S. military support, Iraqi leaders in Erbil and Baghdad had been in touch with the Trump administration, and the forces were in talks about CIA help to provide weapons; CNN first reported the CIA’s involvement and the potential ground operation, Axios said President Trump held a telephone call with two of Iraqi Kurdistan’s top leaders, and Reuters said it could not independently confirm CIA involvement, whether it facilitated weapons, or whether any U.S. forces planned to go into Iran with the Kurdish groups. The CIA declined to comment, and the White House, Pentagon, and Kurdish Regional Government did not immediately respond. The story stressed that any operation from Iraq would probably require significant U.S. military and intelligence support, noted the Pentagon said the two U.S. bases in Erbil have supported the international coalition fighting Islamic State militants, and said Kurdish groups in Iraqi Kurdistan have long worked with the U.S. during the Iraq War and the battle against ISIS but have had shifting allegiances and ideologies that at times strained ties with Washington. It also warned that an armed uprising by Iranian Kurds could have serious consequences for Iran’s stability and could add fuel to separatism among Iran’s Baluch minority, which keeps close ties with separatists in Pakistan’s Baluchistan province, while Turkey was described as unlikely to be sympathetic toward arming Kurdish groups near its borders, especially given its support for Syrian President Ahmed al-Sharaa, its view that an integration deal between Damascus and Kurdish forces is critical to restoring state authority across Syria, its threat of its own military operation against the Syrian Kurdish Democratic Forces (SDF) if they did not come under central government control, and its ongoing efforts toward peace with the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK).### USA TODAY’s “USA TODAY - Breaking News and Latest News Today” | 2026-03-04 was a roundup of headlines including “Can Trump deport migrants coming from dangerous conditions? SCOTUS to weigh in,” “Family calls war ‘uncalled for’ after US airman killed: Iran updates,” “The best (and worst) Oscar moments, from Conan to ‘Sinners’,” “Trump’s reveal of congressman’s terminal diagnosis causes awkward moment,” “Democrats refer Kristi Noem to DOJ for investigation into perjury,” “5 tips to start your March Madness bracket,” and “When is Amazon’s Big Spring sale? Get dates + deals here.”### Reuters’s “US stocks close up on Iran diplomacy hopes; tech leads rebound” | 2026-03-04 said U.S. stocks “closed up on Wednesday” after a news report that Iran had signaled openness to talks and a pledge by President Donald Trump to steady oil markets calmed investor anxiety about the Mideast clash, with technology leading the rebound.### Reuters’s “Pakistan offers to host peace talks to end US-Israeli war on Iran” | 2026-03-04 reported that Pakistan’s prime minister said he was willing to host talks between the United States and Iran to end the war, after Trump postponed threats to bomb Iranian power plants following what he called “productive” talks; the item also used a photo from Tel Aviv showing emergency personnel working at the scene of an Iranian missile strike.### Reuters’s “US sinks Iranian warship; NATO downs Iran missile headed into Turkish airspace” | 2026-03-04 reported that the United States sank an Iranian warship while NATO downed an Iranian missile headed into Turkish airspace, and that new explosions rang out in Tehran as Mojtaba Khamenei, son of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, emerged as successor to his assassinated father as Iran’s supreme leader. The same headline and lead were duplicated in a second Reuters item, “US sinks Iranian warship; NATO downs Iran missile headed into Turkish airspace” | 2026-03-04, which likewise said the U.S. sank the warship, NATO downed the missile entering Turkish airspace, and Mojtaba Khamenei became supreme leader after his father’s assassination, with explosions reported in Tehran.### Reuters’s “Trump threatened to "obliterate" Iran's power plants if Tehran does not fully reopen the Strait of Hormuz within 48 hours.” | 2026-03-04 was a headline-led brief that said Trump threatened to “obliterate” Iran’s power plants if Tehran did not fully reopen the Strait of Hormuz within 48 hours, while related teaser lines said “Three weeks in, Iran war escalates beyond Trump’s control,” “Iran attacks near Israeli nuclear site, fires long-range missiles for first time,” and “How Iran’s IRGC rebooted Lebanon’s Hezbollah to be ready for war,” indicating the conflict had been underway three weeks, Iran had fired long-range missiles near an Israeli nuclear site for the first time, and the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) had “rebooted” Hezbollah.### ABC News’s “US military assists Ecuador in 1st land operation against cartels: Source” | 2026-03-04 said the United States and Ecuador carried out a joint military operation against “designated terrorist organizations in Ecuador,” announced by U.S. Southern Command on Tuesday, with the U.S. role limited to advising Ecuadorian troops rather than participating in the actual ground operation. A source told ABC News that U.S. military advisors in Ecuador provided planning, intelligence, and operational support in preparation for the mission, but did not take part in the ground and airlift operation, which was carried out by Ecuadorian forces. SOUTHCOM said the action was a “powerful example” of partners in Latin America and the Caribbean combating narco-terrorism, released a video that appeared to show Ecuadorian forces and aircraft, and provided no details. The article said this was the first time the U.S. military had worked in a land operation as part of the Trump administration’s fight against Latin American drug cartels; previously, the military had only carried out airstrikes against drug smuggling boats in the Eastern Pacific and Caribbean.### Semafor’s “US, Ecuador launch joint action against cartels” | 2026-03-04 said the U.S. and Ecuador launched joint military action against cartels, marking a major escalation of Washington’s regional campaign against drug trafficking. It added that since the start of President Donald Trump’s second term, the White House had ramped up its war on drugs across Latin America, striking dozens of vessels in the Caribbean allegedly carrying drugs to the U.S. and providing Mexico with intelligence used to capture the leader of the country’s biggest cartel, while experts warned that strong demand in the U.S. and Europe meant the war was unlikely to reduce drug production and could instead make Latin America even more violent.### Reuters’s “US, Ecuadorean forces take action in Ecuador to combat drug trafficking” | 2026-03-04 reported from March 3 that Ecuadorean and U.S. forces launched joint operations to combat drug trafficking, the U.S. Southern Command said on Tuesday, but neither side gave more details. SOUTHCOM, the U.S. combatant command encompassing 31 countries across South and Central America and the Caribbean, said on X the action was meant to combat illicit drug trafficking; Ecuador’s Defense Ministry said it was working with the U.S. in an “offensive” operation and that details were classified. The announcement followed President Daniel Noboa’s statement Monday that his government would conduct joint operations with the U.S. and other allies in March, framing it as “a new phase against narco-terrorism and illegal mining,” and the piece also noted a new U.S.-military-led intelligence task force played a role in the Mexican raid that killed Nemesio Oseguera, alias “El Mencho,” last month, described as the biggest takedown of a cartel kingpin in at least a decade.### ABC Asia’s “Meet Balendra Shah: the rapper-turned-mayor running to be Nepal’s next PM” | 2026-03-04 profiled Balendra Shah, popularly known as Balen, a 35-year-old rapper, engineer and former mayor of Kathmandu who is running to become Nepal’s next prime minister in the March 5 election, the country’s first general election since the Gen Z-led uprising that swept the nation last September. Shah first gained prominence in Nepal’s underground hip-hop, or “Nephop,” scene in the early 2010s with battle rap lyrics attacking corruption, inequality and political stagnation in a country where an estimated 20 per cent of the population lives below the national poverty line. Born in Mahottari District in Madhesh Province and raised in Kathmandu, he trained as a civil engineer, completed a master’s degree in structural engineering in India, entered politics in 2022 as an independent candidate for Kathmandu mayor, won by more than 61,000 votes, and became the first independent to lead the capital. He resigned as mayor in January 2026 to run in the general election, formally joining the Rastriya Swatantra Party (RSP) and allying with its president, Rabi Lamichhane, a former journalist and television presenter who serves as Nepal’s Deputy Prime Minister; at a rally in Dhangadi last month Shah said, “Our agenda is that the poor people who have no money in their pockets should get a full education. The poor people with empty pockets should get access to the health facilities.” He is contesting in K.P. Sharma Oli’s home district of Jhapa-5 in eastern Nepal, challenging the former prime minister who has held office four times since 2015 and was removed after the 2025 protests; Shah’s campaign has 3.5 million Facebook followers, 1 million on Instagram, 400,000 on X and nearly 1 million YouTube subscribers, and his signature dark glasses became a sold-out fashion accessory in Kathmandu shops. Reuters said he often drives himself, stops spontaneously to greet people, and can speak multiple languages, including Maithili for voters in Madhesh, and the article included remarks from Melbourne-based project coordinator Sanil Karmacharya, who returned home to vote and called Shah “a symbol of a generational shift in politics.”### CNN’s “Who’s the rapper trying to be Nepal’s next leader?” | 2026-03-04 said millions of Nepalis would head to the polls Thursday, March 5, 2026 in a vote that could upend the country’s political order, with Balendra Shah, better known as Balen, leading the race as a rapper-turned-politician and “an unlikely national force” drawing strong support from young voters who see the old system as broken and in need of change; CNN’s reporter was Hanako Montgomery.### The Times of India’s “Aimplb: US, Israel attacks Iran: AIMPLB urges UN to take steps for ceasefire” | 2026-03-04 reported that the All India Muslim Personal Law Board on Tuesday “strongly and unequivocally condemned” open aggression by the U.S. and Israel against Iran, urged the UN, the Indian government, and the international community to take “immediate, effective, and concrete steps” for a ceasefire, and warned the region not to descend into a devastating war. Spokesperson SQR Ilyas said significant progress had been made in negotiations between Iran and the U.S. regarding Iran’s nuclear programme, expressed deep sorrow over the “martyrdom” of Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Khamenei, and said that targeting the central leadership of a sovereign country during wartime and openly speaking of regime change was a blatant violation of international law; the statement quoted that “this fire will not remain confined to one region.”### The Times of India’s “Did Iran signal ‘openness’ to end conflict day after joint US-Israel strikes? Report makes big claim after Trump’s ‘too late’ remark” | 2026-03-04 said Iran’s Ministry of Intelligence reportedly contacted the CIA, signaling possible willingness to end the Middle East conflict that began with joint U.S.-Israel strikes in Tehran on February 28, with the offer to discuss terms relayed through an unnamed country’s spy agency a day after the attacks began. The report said Trump on Tuesday said it was “too late” for Tehran to pursue talks, that Iranian officials had repeatedly ruled out negotiations with Washington since the outbreak of the conflict, and that American officials did not view the proposal as serious and were skeptical either Iran or the Trump administration was genuinely prepared for negotiations in the short term. It also said Israeli leaders urged the U.S. to dismiss the outreach and continue military pressure; under a possible deal the Trump administration would seek a pledge from Iran to abandon or sharply scale back its ballistic missile and nuclear programs and end support for proxy groups such as Lebanon-based Hezbollah, which had targeted Israel after the assassination of Iran’s supreme leader, prompting Israeli ground operations in southern Lebanon. The report said some Iranian officials believed they could inflict enough “physical, economic, and political pain” on the U.S. and Israel to force an end to the joint assault, while Iran had also targeted Gulf states hosting U.S. military bases and civilian infrastructure in those countries.### The Straits Times’s “ASEAN calls Middle East escalation ‘regrettable’, urges ceasefire after US-Israel strike on Iran” | 2026-03-04 said ASEAN foreign ministers described the Middle East escalation as “regrettable” and urged an immediate ceasefire after a U.S. and Israeli strike on Iran triggered retaliatory attacks across the region, raising concerns over civilian safety and global stability. The joint statement on March 4 came four days after the February 28 strikes, during ongoing diplomatic efforts led by Oman to advance a negotiated solution; the escalation followed attacks initiated by the U.S. and Israel against Iran on February 28 and Tehran’s retaliatory strikes against Bahrain, Jordan, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Syria and the United Arab Emirates. Oman’s Foreign Minister Badr Albusaidi said on