US strikes Iran: Trump rolls the dice as fears of wider war surge | 2026-03-01 — USA TODAY said the United States launched massive strikes on Iran, dubbed Operation Epic Fury, with the stated goals of ending Tehran’s nuclear program and ousting the regime, as Iran retaliated with missile strikes on Israel and American bases throughout the region. Trump posted a video on social media on Feb. 27 wearing a white cap that read “USA,” saying “The lives of courageous American heroes may be lost, and we may have casualties; that often happens in war,” but calling it “a noble mission” done “for the future.” The article said most Americans were not persuaded: in a University of Maryland poll of 1,004 adults taken Feb. 5-9 with a margin of error of 3.5 percentage points, only 21% favored a U.S. attack on Iran, 49% opposed, and 30% didn’t know; among Republicans, 40% backed it, 35% were unsure. Critics including former Georgia congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene said Trump had joined the “neocons” after vowing “NO MORE FOREIGN WARS.” The piece stressed that Trump had not clearly articulated his goals or why an attack served U.S. strategic interests, contrasted with George H.W. Bush and George W. Bush’s public-relations campaigns before the Gulf wars. It described Iran as having more than 600,000 active-duty forces, thousands of short- and medium-range missiles and drones, and noted that within hours Iran launched missile strikes on Israel and on U.S. military bases in Bahrain, Iraq, Kuwait, Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the UAE. Trump urged Iranians to “take over your government; it will be yours to take” and said it was “probably your only chance for generations.” The historical section recalled the 1979 overthrow of the U.S.-backed shah, Jimmy Carter’s failure to free 52 embassy hostages, Reagan’s Iran-contra affair, Obama’s sanctions diplomacy and nuclear deal, and Obama saying hours before the strikes that he was “not happy” with lack of progress and that “Sometimes you have to use force.” ### Tom Cotton: Republicans 'overwhelmingly' back military action on Iran | 2026-03-01 — Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) told CNN’s Dana Bash on “State of the Union” that he believed U.S. military action against Iran would have “overwhelming support” among Republicans on Capitol Hill, saying that while campaigning in Arkansas he had not heard “a single Arkansan” express anything but “unqualified support” for Trump’s decision “to finally put America’s foot down and end 47 years of terror and revolutionary violence by the Islamic Republic against the United States and our citizens.” He said he suspected elected Republicans would support it when Congress returned later that week. The article said the U.S. and Israel launched strikes in Iran early Saturday and that Iran retaliated against Israel and Gulf countries including Saudi Arabia and Qatar. Democrats and some GOP lawmakers pushed for Congress to return from recess and vote on a war powers resolution; Rep. Ro Khanna (D-Calif.) posted on X that “Donald Trump has launched a war on Iran,” urging a Monday vote on his and Rep. Thomas Massie’s (R-Ky.) resolution to “stop this war.” Cotton said forthcoming U.S. strikes would focus on Tehran’s “thousands” of missiles, its missile launchers and missile manufacturing capability, arguing Iran “can never have a nuclear weapon” and “can’t be allowed to have a vast missile arsenal,” which he said threatened U.S. troops, Israel and “our other friends in the region.” ### Reuters | Breaking International News & Views | 2026-03-01 — Reuters reported that Mojtaba Khamanei, the son of Iran’s late Supreme Leader, survived the assault on the country by U.S. and Israeli air strikes, according to two Iranian sources. ### Reuters | Breaking International News & Views | 2026-03-01 — Iran rejects de-escalation as Israel kills Iranian security chief — Reuters said Iran’s security chief Ali Larijani was killed by Israel, with the government confirming it on Tuesday, and called him the most senior figure targeted since the U.S.-Israeli war’s first day; a senior Iranian official said Iran’s new supreme leader rejected de-escalation offers conveyed by intermediary countries. ### U.S.-Israeli strikes in Iran continue into 2nd day : NPR | 2026-03-01 — NPR reported from Amman, Jordan and Washington that President Trump said more U.S. service members would likely be killed in the U.S. and Israeli war against Iran after the Pentagon confirmed on Sunday that three U.S. service members were killed and at least five were seriously wounded. Trump’s Truth Social address called them “true American patriots” and a “righteous mission,” adding “And sadly, there will likely be more before it ends, that’s the way it is,” while he promised America would avenge their deaths and accused Iran of war “against civilization.” CENTCOM said the casualties were the first American casualties since the United States and Israel launched strikes on Saturday, and a U.S. official said the troops killed were ground-based forces stationed in Kuwait; several others had “minor shrapnel injuries and concussions.” CENTCOM said Operation Epic Fury struck an Iranian Jamaran-class corvette, a small warship, sinking it at a pier at an Iranian port on the Gulf of Oman, and separately said B-2 stealth bombers armed with 2,000-lb bombs struck Iran’s ballistic missile facilities; over 1,000 targets had been struck. Trump also claimed nine Iranian naval ships were sunk and Iran’s naval headquarters “largely destroyed,” though CENTCOM would not confirm. Israel launched a fresh wave of attacks in Tehran, saying it was striking “the Iranian terror regime” “in the heart of Tehran” to establish air superiority and “pave the path to Tehran.” Iranian state media said Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, 86, was killed in strikes on his office in Tehran; Iran then set up a three-person temporary leadership council to govern under Islamic law before a panel of Shia clerics chooses a new leader. Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Esmail Baghaei told NPR that 158 students were killed at an elementary school in Minab, southern Iran, and said “they hit hospitals in the center of Tehran.” Capt. Tim Hawkins said the U.S. was looking into civilian harm reports and that “Unlike Iran, we have never — and will never — target civilians.” Mourning crowds packed Tehran’s Enghelab Square and other cities, while in Yasuj videos showed a large crowd chanting “the lion of God has been killed.” Iraq blocked entrances to Baghdad’s Green Zone; Jordan reported air raid sirens; Iranian attacks shut down or damaged major airports including Dubai International Airport and also hit Abu Dhabi and Kuwait, with the Burj Al Arab hotel damaged. Iran threatened to close the Strait of Hormuz and vowed “no mercy or forgiveness” in revenge for the leader, while Baghaei said Iran was fighting “foreign aggression, foreign domination,” calling it “the U.S. administration’s war of choice.” Israel said at least nine people were killed in an Iranian missile attack near Jerusalem, and OPEC was set to meet on production as oil prices loomed. Trump warned that if Iran escalated, the U.S. would respond with “a force that has never been seen before” and told CNBC military operations were “ahead of schedule” and “everything is ahead of schedule.” ### Photos: Reactions from Iran, Israel, Bahrain after strikes : NPR | 2026-03-01 — NPR’s photo roundup showed smoke over Tehran on March 1, 2026; demonstrators waving Iranian flags in Tehran on Saturday, Feb. 28; Israeli first responders in Tel Aviv after an Iranian strike; emergency crews in Manama, Bahrain after retaliation strikes; government supporters mourning Ali Khamenei in Tehran on Sunday, March 1; protesters in Los Angeles at City Hall in support of war in Iran; antiwar protesters in Houston holding a sign reading “No New US War In The Middle East”; Iran-backed Houthis at Sebeen Square in Sanaa, Yemen with Iranian flags and portraits of Khamenei; members of the Iranian community celebrating in Glasgow, Scotland; a plume of smoke after a missile strike on a building in Tehran; Leah Guttmann sheltering with her son Teddy in an underground parking garage in Tel Aviv as sirens warned of incoming missiles; and smoke over Tehran’s skyline after explosions. ### US and Israel pound Iran as Trump signals willingness to talk to Tehran | 2026-03-01 — AP said the U.S. and Israel pounded targets across Iran on Sunday, dropping massive bombs on ballistic missile sites and wiping out warships after Khamenei’s killing; more than 200 people had been killed since the start of the strikes, according to Iranian leaders. The war widened as Iran-supported militants in Iraq and Lebanon claimed strikes on Israel and a U.S. base, Cyprus said a drone attack targeted a British base on the island, and Gulf states warned they might retaliate after strikes that hit key sites and killed at least five civilians. Iran’s counteroffensive killed three U.S. service members, the first known American casualties, and Israeli rescue services said strikes hit Jerusalem and a synagogue in Beit Shemesh, where nine were killed and 28 wounded, bringing the overall death toll in Israel to 11. AP said the three U.S. troops were Army soldiers deployed to Kuwait in a supplies and logistics unit; Israel struck Tehran buildings belonging to Iran’s air force, missile command and internal security force. The U.S. military said B-2 stealth bombers struck ballistic missile facilities with 2,000-pound bombs; Trump said nine Iranian warships were sunk and the navy’s headquarters “largely destroyed.” Britain, France and Germany said they were ready to work with the U.S. to help stop Iran’s attacks, while Gulf Arab countries reserved the right to respond. AP said the weekend attacks were the second combined U.S.-Israeli strikes in eight months after the 12-day war last June, and that Khamenei’s death, after ruling for more than three decades, created a leadership vacuum. Trump told The Atlantic he was open to dialogue with Iran’s new leadership: “They want to talk, and I have agreed to talk, so I will be talking to them.” In the Gulf, three were reported killed in the UAE and one each in Kuwait and Bahrain; Bahrain and Kuwait said Iranian strikes hit civilian targets outside U.S. bases, and in Iraq a Shiite militia, Saraya Awliya al-Dam, claimed a drone attack Monday on U.S. troops at Baghdad airport. Hezbollah fired missiles across the Lebanon-Israel border early Monday, its first claimed strike against Israel in more than a year, saying it was retaliation for Khamenei’s killing and “repeated Israeli aggressions.” In Tehran, the streets were largely deserted, the Basij set up checkpoints, and an Iranian medical professional in Rasht said it was “one of the best nights, if not the best night of our lives,” while AP also reported that parts of the Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting building were struck. In southern Iran, at least 165 people were killed Saturday when a girls’ school was struck, according to IRNA; the Israeli military said it was not aware of strikes there and the U.S. said it was looking into reports. Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said a new supreme leader would be chosen in “one or two days,” while Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian said a new leadership council had begun its work and parliamentary speaker Mohammad Bagher Qalibaf warned, “You have crossed our red line and must pay the price. We will deliver such devastating blows that you yourselves will be driven to beg.” Trump warned, “IF THEY DO, WE WILL HIT THEM WITH A FORCE THAT HAS NEVER BEEN SEEN BEFORE!” An Israeli military official described months of “extremely high coordination” with the U.S. and called the opportunity a “golden opportunity,” saying near-simultaneous strikes in three locations 1,000 miles from Israel killed Khamenei and some 40 senior figures including the head of the Revolutionary Guard and the defense minister. ### US uses Anthropic AI, B-2 bombers and suicide drones in Iran strikes | 2026-03-01 — Reuters said the U.S. unleashed Tomahawk cruise missiles, stealth fighters, and for the first time in combat low-cost one-way attack drones modeled after Iranian designs, in Operation Epic Fury, and that the Pentagon used Anthropic’s Claude tools during the attack, though Reuters could not determine how. The operation came a day after Trump declared Anthropic a supply-chain risk and directed the government to stop working with the start-up. The U.S. used B-2 stealth bombers from the U.S. to strike hardened underground Iranian missile facilities with 2,000-pound bombs. The drones appeared identical to the new LUCAS (Low-Cost Unmanned Combat Attack System) made by Phoenix-based Spektreworks and priced around $35,000; the Pentagon said the one-way attack drones were modeled after Iranian Shahed drones, reflecting “affordable mass” tactics pushed by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Reuters said Tomahawk Land Attack Missiles are long-range cruise missiles launched from sea or land, can strike from 1,000 miles away, measure 20 feet long with an 8.5-foot wingspan and weigh about 3,330 pounds; RTX’s Raytheon unit makes them, with a 2026 Pentagon plan to buy 57 and an effort to eventually increase production to 1,000 annually. U.S. Central Command released photos of Tomahawks, F/A-18 and F-35 jets; the F-35 is a fifth-generation stealth fighter used extensively in the Middle East and by the Israeli Air Force. ### USA TODAY - Breaking News and Latest News Today | 2026-03-01 — a news summary listed several unrelated stories, including “Man who worked security for Rep. Jasmine Crockett killed by police,” “Some airports could close as TSA workers miss paychecks,” a “blockbuster deal” between the Miami Dolphins and Denver Broncos, “US intelligence official quits over Iran war, says Trump was duped,” “You’ll need these documents to vote if the SAVE Act passes,” “Princess Kate opens up about why she rarely drinks alcohol,” and “What Kid Rock really thought of Conan O’Brien’s Oscars diss.” ### Reuters | Breaking International News & Views | 2026-03-01 — Iran’s huge Pars gas field was hit on Wednesday in a major escalation in the U.S.-Israeli war