“With US pressure rising, Iran agrees to 'never, ever have nuclear material, Oman mediator says - The Times of India” on 2026-02-28 reported that, after several rounds of indirect talks mediated by Oman and Muslim nations, Iran’s foreign minister said Tehran had agreed it would “never, ever have … nuclear material” capable of producing a bomb, with Badr Albusaidi telling CBS News that negotiators had made “substantial progress” and that a “peace deal is within our reach”; he said Iran had committed to “zero accumulation, zero stockpiling, and full verification,” that existing stockpiles of enriched uranium would be blended down to the lowest enrichment levels and converted into nuclear fuel in an “irreversible” way, and that International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors would get full access to nuclear facilities, with possible American inspector access later if a fair and durable deal emerged. The piece also said Donald Trump was “not happy” after the latest Geneva round ended without a breakthrough, reiterated “They cannot have nuclear weapons,” accused Iranian negotiators of not wanting to “quite go far enough,” threatened military action if Iran refused a far-reaching deal, and said of how close he was to ordering a strike, “I’d rather not tell you,” while noting Marco Rubio was due to visit Israel and the United Nations urged both sides to stay on the diplomatic track amid Middle East military buildup. ###
“Iran agreed to 'zero stockpiling' of nuclear material in US talks: Omani FM” on 2026-02-28 said Oman’s foreign minister Badr al-Busaidi, mediating between U.S. and Iranian officials in Geneva, said Iran was offering to give up stockpiling enriched uranium and that “now we are talking about zero stockpiling,” because if enriched material cannot be stockpiled “there is no way you can actually create a bomb”; it said Iran currently held a stockpile of between 300 and 400 kilograms of 60 percent enriched uranium, warned by experts as weaponizable, and that if there were a deal, international nuclear inspectors likely from the IAEA could inspect facilities at places like Isfahan and inspect the stockpiles, with Iran agreeing to downgrade the enriched uranium “downblended to the lowest level possible” and “converted into fuel” that would be “irreversible,” with “full access for inspectors.” The article added Trump had massed a major military contingent in the Middle East and threatened strikes if no deal was reached, saying “We haven’t made a final decision. We’re not exactly happy with the way they’re negotiating,” and “We’ll see how it all works out.” ###
“Peace ‘within reach’ as Iran agrees no nuclear material stockpile: Oman FM | Military News | Al Jazeera” on 2026-02-28 reported that Iran agreed during indirect talks with the United States never to stockpile enriched uranium, describing the result as a major breakthrough after Oman brokered the third round of indirect talks between the U.S. and Iran in Geneva on Thursday; Badr bin Hamad Al Busaidi said all issues in a deal could be resolved “amicably and comprehensively” within a few months, that “a peace deal is within our reach … if we just allow diplomacy the space it needs to get there,” and that “the single most important achievement” was the agreement that Iran will “never ever have nuclear material that will create a bomb.” He said there would be “zero stockpiling,” “full and comprehensive verification by the IAEA,” and that Iran would degrade its current stockpiles to “the lowest level possible” so it is “converted into fuel, and that fuel will be irreversible”; he also said Iran was open to discuss its missile programme, hoped enough ground had been covered to hold off a U.S. attack, and said the U.S. and Iranian sides were expected to meet again on Monday in Vienna, Austria, after he had met U.S. Vice President JD Vance earlier that Friday, while Trump said he was not happy with the talks, urged Iran to “make a deal,” and said military force might still be used “but sometimes you have to do it.” ###
“Iranian leader Khamenei killed in air strikes as U.S., Israel launch attacks | Reuters” on 2026-02-28 said Iran’s Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei was killed on Saturday, with state media confirming his death early Sunday, after the United States and Israel launched what Reuters called the most ambitious attack on Iranian targets in decades; Trump said the U.S. worked closely with Israel to target the man who led Iran since 1989, and Iran responded with missiles fired at Israel and at least seven other countries, including Gulf states hosting U.S. bases. Trump said the strikes were meant to end a decades-long threat from Iran and ensure it could not develop a nuclear weapon, posting that “there was not a thing he, or the other leaders that have been killed along with him, could do,” and warning heavy bombing would continue “uninterrupted throughout the week or, as long as necessary to achieve our objective of PEACE THROUGHOUT THE MIDDLE EAST AND, INDEED, THE WORLD!” Netanyahu said Khamenei’s compound had been destroyed; sources said Iranian Defence Minister Amir Nasirzadeh and Revolutionary Guards commander Mohammed Pakpour were among those killed, and Israel’s military said five other senior commanders were dead, including Ali Shamkhani, with Iranian media also saying Khamenei’s daughter, grandchild, son-in-law and daughter-in-law were killed. The report described celebrations in Tehran, Karaj and Isfahan alongside fear in Tabriz, where mother-of-two Minou, 32, said, “We are scared, we are terrified. My children are shaking, we have nowhere to go, we will die here,” while Iran launched hundreds of missiles and drones, the Pentagon said there were no U.S. deaths or injuries, Iran warned the Strait of Hormuz was closed, Israel said 200 fighter jets hit 500 targets throughout Iran, and a girls’ primary school in Minab was said by a local prosecutor to have killed 85 people. It also said Trump named the campaign Operation Epic Fury, calling its aim “eliminating imminent threats from the Iranian regime,” urged Iranians to “take over” governance, and later said “The heavy and pinpoint bombing, however, will continue, uninterrupted throughout the week,” while a UN Security Council meeting saw Russia’s Vasily Nebenzya say Iran had been “stabbed in the back,” China also criticized the strikes, and UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres called for an immediate cessation of hostilities; oil analysts warned prices could rise $10 to $20 per barrel, missiles hit Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Doha, Bahrain said its U.S. Fifth Fleet service centre was attacked, Qatar said it downed all missiles and Kuwait said a U.S. base there was struck, with Ebrahim Jabbari saying only “scrap missiles” had been used so far and new weapons would soon be unveiled. ###
“Why the US and Israel attacked Iran; what we know so far | CNN” on 2026-02-28 said joint U.S.-Israeli attacks killed Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the supreme leader for nearly four decades, thrusting Iran into uncertainty and sparking a conflict that could draw in much of the Middle East; Trump announced Khamenei’s death on Saturday and later said bombing would continue “uninterrupted throughout the week,” while Iran answered with an unprecedented wave of strikes across the region, hitting countries hosting U.S. military bases such as Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates, and Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian said “bloodshed and revenge” are Iran’s “legitimate right and duty.” CNN said Trump’s objective was “to defend the American people by eliminating imminent threats from the Iranian regime,” including Iran’s nuclear program, and noted the White House claimed it had “totally” obliterated that program in the June 2025 war when the U.S. briefly joined Israel; the story said U.S. and Israeli intelligence tracked Khamenei’s movements for months and struck as top Iranian officials planned to meet Saturday morning in a Tehran compound housing the offices of the ayatollah, the Iranian presidency and the national security apparatus. Trump accused Iran of rejecting “every opportunity to renounce their nuclear ambitions” and repeated the disputed claim that Iran was building ballistic missiles that could reach the U.S. mainland, while Netanyahu said Israel last summer launched war against Iran after the fall of Bashar al-Assad and the crippling of Hezbollah, later resuming strikes because of Iran’s support for Hamas after October 7, 2023; both leaders openly signaled regime change, with Trump telling Iranians “the hour of your freedom is at hand,” Netanyahu urging them to “cast off the yoke of tyranny,” and Trump telling the IRGC to lay down its weapons or face “certain death.” The article said images showed severe damage at Khamenei’s highly secure Tehran compound in the Pasteur district, that Israel claimed a “majority” of senior Iranian military leaders were killed including 40 commanders and Maj. Gen. Abdolrahim Mousavi, that local prosecutors said 148 people were killed in Minab, HRANA said at least 133 civilians were killed and 200 injured, Iranian state media said over 200 were dead and more than 700 wounded, and fresh strikes hit Tehran around Azadi Tower; Iran retaliated across Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Jordan and even Oman, with blasts reported in Dubai airport and the Fairmont Hotel area, Abu Dhabi’s Zayed International Airport seeing one killed and seven injured, Kuwait International Airport and Ali Al-Salem air base struck, Bahrain’s Manama and Muharraq hit, and the Strait of Hormuz traffic disrupted. CNN also said three U.S. service members were killed and five seriously wounded, Trump’s administration had amassed the largest buildup of military materiel in the Middle East since 2003, and Iran formed a provisional leadership council of Masoud Pezeshkian, judiciary chief Gholam-Hossein Mohseni-Ejei and Ayatollah Alireza Arafi. ###
“What to know about the U.S.-Israel attacks on Iran | PBS News” on 2026-02-28 said the U.S. and Israel attacked Iran on Saturday in a massive operation to destroy military capabilities and eliminate the threat of a nuclear weapon, with Trump urging Iranians to “take over your government,” while Iran’s counterattacks targeted Israel and U.S. military installations in Bahrain, Kuwait and Qatar and Iranian state media citing the Red Crescent said at least 201 people had been killed and more than 700 injured. PBS said one of the first strikes hit near the offices of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, that Netanyahu said there were “growing signs” Khamenei had been killed, but Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi told NBC News that Khamenei and President Masoud Pezeshkian were alive “as far as I know”; the article said the U.S. and Israel had already struck Iran last June, weakening air defenses, military leadership and the nuclear program. It said Iran fired “dozens” of missiles at Israel with many intercepted and 89 “lightly injured” people reported by Magen David Adom, Saudi Arabia said its capital and eastern region were targeted in a repelled attack, Bahrain said a missile hit the U.S. Navy’s 5th Fleet headquarters and three buildings were damaged in Manama and Muharraq, Kuwait said a drone hit the main international airport and three troops were injured by shrapnel at Ali Al-Salem air base, Jordan said it “dealt with” 49 drones and ballistic missiles, and Houthi officials in Yemen vowed to resume attacks on Red Sea shipping routes and Israel. The report added Trump announced “major combat operations” in an 8-minute social media video, said “When we are finished, take over your government,” and repeated grievances dating to the 1979 revolution, while the U.S. had assembled the USS Abraham Lincoln and three guided-missile destroyers in January and later sent the USS Gerald R. Ford with four destroyers from the Caribbean, adding more than 10,000 troops to the region; it said Israel, Qatar, Syria, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait and Bahrain closed airspace, Oman’s Muscat International Airport shut down, flight restrictions spread over the UAE, and the Strait of Hormuz threat loomed because a third of worldwide oil exports shipped by sea passed through it in 2025. ###
“Trump Strikes Iran: The 5 Scenarios for What Happens Next - Newsweek” on 2026-02-28 laid out five scenarios after Trump’s decision to launch coordinated U.S. strikes on Iran alongside Israel, saying strikes near Tehran hit close to Khamenei’s offices and Iran immediately retaliated against Israel and other U.S. allies in the region; it said Trump announced “major combat operations” and told Iranians, “When we are finished, take over your government,” asking whether the Islamic Republic could still cling to power after ruling “with an iron fist since 1979.” The five scenarios were: 1) Iran retaliation, with missiles, cruise missiles, drones and proxy forces hitting U.S. troops in Iraq and Syria, Israeli cities, naval assets in the Gulf and shipping lanes such as the Strait of Hormuz, which carries roughly a fifth of all global oil; 2) regional escalation, if Hezbollah in Lebanon, militias in Iraq, the Houthis in Yemen and other aligned groups open multiple fronts; 3) protests catch fire, with Trump citing 32,000 Iranians killed in his State of the Union and arguing U.S. strikes could embolden young people to take to the streets, though nationalist backlash and repression could follow; 4) the return of Reza Pahlavi, son of Iran’s last shah, if regime authority fractures; and 5) the regime clings on, because the IRGC and clerical-security structure remain powerful, Khamenei is protected by an elite IRGC security unit, and even if he dies the Islamic Republic’s dispersed power, layered command chains and predesignated deputies are designed to preserve continuity, though the strikes could strengthen hard-liners and produce a harsher crackdown. ###
“Visualizing the US-Israeli attack on Iran and retaliation in maps and charts | CNN” on 2026-02-28 said the United States and Israel launched a major attack on Iran that Trump said would “lay waste” to Iran’s military, “obliterate” its nuclear program and could topple its regime, with Trump saying in a Truth Social video that Iran had rejected “every opportunity to renounce their nuclear ambitions” and that the U.S. “can’t take it anymore