Why Yemen’s Houthis are staying out of Israel-US fight with Iran – for now | Israel-Iran conflict News | Al Jazeera, 2026-03-07: in Sanaa, Yemen, amid the Israel-US attacks on Iran that began on February 28, 2026, the Iran-allied Houthi movement stayed quiet for a week except for rhetoric and a mass protest denouncing the strikes, even as tensions from Tehran spread to Abu Dhabi, Doha, Kuwait City, Manama, and Beirut; a file photo showed supporters kissing a picture of Iran’s former Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei at a memorial rally in the Houthi-held capital on March 1, 2026. Analysts said Houthi intervention remained possible, perhaps in “a phased escalation,” but at the current stage the main priority was avoiding direct US and Israeli retaliation. Luca Nevola of ACLED said the group feared “Israeli intelligence and the possibility of leadership decapitation,” recalling that last August Israeli strikes in Sanaa killed at least 12 Houthi high-ranking government members, including Prime Minister Ahmed al-Rahawi and chief of staff Mohammed al-Ghumari, which made the leadership more cautious. Houthi chief Abdel-Malik al-Houthi said, “Yemen stands clearly with the Islamic Republic of Iran and the Muslim Iranian people,” adding that “hands are on the trigger,” while commentator Sadam al-Huraibi said the Houthis would enter if Iran requested it, that Tehran did not want to use “all its cards at once,” and that the group was “preparing for war in Sanaa and the provinces they control.” Nevola and al-Huraibi said the Houthis could again strike the Red Sea, Israel, US warships and military assets, and even regional partners such as the UAE and Somaliland; Nevola noted that Houthi long-range drone and missile attacks could become more effective later if air defence systems faced resupply constraints. The article recalled the Houthis’ late-2023 to 2025 Red Sea campaign, which killed at least nine mariners, sank four ships, and disrupted a shipping corridor through which about $1 trillion of goods passed annually before the war. It also said a weakened or fallen Iranian regime would be “detrimental” because smuggled weapons flows to Yemen could shrink or cease; in 2022 the UN found thousands of seized weapons in the Arabian Sea likely came from a single port in Iran, and a UN Security Council panel of experts on Yemen said boats and land transport moved weapons made in Russia, China, and Iran into Yemen. At the grassroots level, 28-year-old Sanaa resident Mohammed Yahia stocked up on cooking gas, flour, rice, and cooking oil, expecting missiles and drones and fearing air strikes on Sanaa within hours, but said instead, “Yemenis are watching,” and “Ultimately, it is the Houthis who will decide whether Yemen enters this conflict.” ### The U.S. and China running the world together? China says no thanks, 2026-03-07/2026-03-08: in Beijing, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi rejected Donald Trump’s “G2” idea, saying on the sidelines of China’s annual legislative session that although China and the U.S. have “a significant impact on the world,” there are “more than 190 countries on our planet,” and the future of humanity will be forged through “the collective efforts of all nations.” He said China will “never seek hegemony or expansion,” wants “an equal and orderly multipolar world,” and “never take the beaten path of seeking hegemony as its strength grows,” while warning that great power rivalry and bloc confrontation have “invariably inflicted disaster and pain on humanity,” and that “the law of the jungle must not return and rule the world.” The article explained that the “G2” concept, introduced in 2005 by American economist C. Fred Bergsten, had fallen out of favor in Washington during Trump’s first term, though Trump used it again last fall to describe his meeting with Xi Jinping in South Korea; Wang said U.S.-China relations have “far-reaching and global implications,” and turning backs on each other would mean “mutual misperception and miscalculation” and could drag “the whole world down.” He praised Trump and Xi for having “led by example,” noting they had spoken twice by phone since their October meeting, and said 2026 was a “big year” with high-level exchanges planned, including Trump’s three-day China trip starting March 31, 2026, possible reciprocal travel by Xi to the U.S., the APEC summit in Shenzhen in November and the G20 summit in Miami in December; he said the two sides should “make thorough preparations accordingly, create a suitable environment, manage the risks that do exist and remove unnecessary disruptions.” He also called for an “immediate halt to military action and a return to dialogue” over the ongoing U.S.-Israeli strikes on Iran, said the war in the Middle East “does no one any good,” and rejected the “abuse of force” and violations of international law. ### Israel’s War With Iran Marks Shift in Regional Power Since Hamas Attack - Bloomberg, 2026-03-07, by Ethan Bronner: the article recalled that at dawn on Saturday Oct. 7, 2023, as rockets and gunmen poured into Israel from Gaza, Hamas military chief Mohammad Deif declared the Jewish state finished, addressing “our brothers in the Islamic resistance in Lebanon, Iran, Yemen, Iraq and Syria” and saying “the day has come”; the article’s central point was that “The day did come, but not the one Deif imagined.” ### ‘Knew they were next’: Hezbollah rearmed for months after concluding war inevitable | The Times of Israel, 2026-03-07: Reuters reported that Hezbollah spent months restocking rockets and drones using support from Iran and its own weapons factories, with six sources familiar with the group’s preparations saying it concluded another round of fighting with Israel was inevitable and might pose an existential threat. The sources included three Lebanese sources, two foreign officials in Lebanon, and an Israel Defense Forces official, all speaking anonymously. Hezbollah’s media office head, Youssef al-Zein, said the group would not comment on military operations but had decided to “fight to the last breath.” Founded by Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps in 1982, Hezbollah launched rockets and drones at Israel on Monday to avenge the death of Iran’s supreme leader Ali Khamenei, while a monthly budget of $50 million, mostly from Iran and earmarked for fighters’ salaries, funded its buildup; around 60,000 Lebanese, mostly Shi’ite Muslims from Hezbollah’s base of support, remained displaced from the 2024 war with their homes in ruins. Hezbollah also replenished drone and rocket stocks through local manufacturing; an IDF official said it used Iranian funding both to smuggle arms and make its own weapons, though manufacturing had been diminished, and a second foreign official said new rockets and Iranian-made logistical materials had been stationed in southern Lebanon. The IDF’s Lt. Col. Nadav Shoshani said Hezbollah “had a lot of arms left” and was trying to rearm, while Israel said it struck eight military compounds used by Hezbollah’s elite Radwan force to store weapons and prepare for a confrontation in late February. ALMA, an Israeli think tank, assessed the arsenal on the eve of the attack at approximately 25,000 rockets and missiles, mostly short- and medium-range; a March 4 Hezbollah video showed a fighter setting up a drone identified by Dubai-based analyst Riad Kahwaji as a Shahed-101, which he said could be produced locally. Hezbollah lost 5,000 operatives in the 2024 war but still had some 95,000 fighters, according to one Lebanese source, and had redeployed Radwan fighters back to southern Lebanon. The group launched 60 drones and rockets on March 2, a similar number on March 3, and more than double that number on March 4, suggesting larger caches; sources said Hezbollah believed Israel would eventually seek to “disable its ability to retaliate,” that it “knew they were next on the list,” and that the group feared Israel would turn from Iran to Hezbollah. ### The arms dealer’s Game Boy company is reportedly in talks with potential new investors. | The Verge, 2026-03-07, posted Mar 7, 2026 at 8:47 PM UTC: Richard Lawler reported that Palmer Luckey’s retro gaming company ModRetro was in talks to raise funds at a $1 billion valuation, while his other company Anduril, which sells drones and autonomous weapons to the military, was at the same time seeking investors for a new round valuing it at $60 billion; the article compared the two businesses and noted that a later December 21, 2025 review by Sean Hollister titled “ModRetro Chromatic review: an arms dealer’s Game Boy is among the best ever made” had described the ModRetro Chromatic as “among the best ever made.” ### Trump Says Deploying U.S. Ground Forces in Iran 'On the Table' - U.S. News, 2026-03-08, by Ben Samuels: Trump told ABC that “everything is on the table” and signaled he was weighing the use of special forces in Iran to seize its nuclear stockpile, implying a possible ground operation. ### U.S. considers idea of special operation to seize Iran’s uranium | Fortune, 2026-03-08: Fortune reported that Trump was weighing deploying special forces on the ground to seize Iran’s near-bomb-grade uranium because officials were increasingly concerned the stockpile may have been moved, according to three diplomatic officials briefed on the matter. ### US considers idea of special operation to seize Iran’s uranium: Sources | The Straits Times, Published Mar 09, 2026, 05:07 AM / Updated Mar 09, 2026, 06:17 PM: in New York, the report said Trump was weighing special forces to seize Iran’s near-bomb-grade uranium, with three diplomatic officials as sources, and that uncertainty had grown because UN atomic inspectors had not verified the stockpile’s location for almost nine months. Trump said late on March 7 aboard Air Force One, “They haven’t been able to get to it and at some point, maybe we will,” adding, “We haven’t gone after it, but it’s something we can do later on. We wouldn’t do it now.” The article said the US and Israel struck key nuclear facilities during last June’s 12-day war to stop Iran’s ability to produce nuclear weapons, but the strikes on Fordow, Natanz, and the uranium processing center in Isfahan complicated tracking the material; the IAEA had previously seen sustained activity outside tunnels near Isfahan, where 441kg of highly enriched uranium was last documented, enough for roughly a dozen nuclear warheads if further refined, with the US specifying 11 bombs. Iran also had more than 8,000kg of lower-enriched uranium. US and Israeli officials were actively searching and had contingency plans to deploy special forces if the location was confirmed; a senior Trump administration official said on March 3 the US had two options, either send people in to dilute the uranium on-site and safely dispose of it if they controlled the territory, or remove it from Iran and deal with it elsewhere. Semafor had reported a special operations raid option, and Axios said the US and Israel were looking at potential ground forces. The White House did not comment. Trump said ground troops would have to be for a “very good reason” and if used Iran would have to be so “decimated that they wouldn’t be able to fight at the ground level.” The article also described Project Honey Badger, a decades-old plan to airlift roughly 2,400 special operations troops on more than 100 aircraft into Iran with excavation equipment including a heavy bulldozer to remove buried uranium. Iran’s envoy to the IAEA, Reza Najafi, said the agency should not expect safeguard measures under wartime conditions; negotiations over reducing or exporting the stockpile had been halted by the latest fighting. One European official said the collapse of diplomacy forced US and Israeli military contingencies to be reviewed, though the uranium could be dispersed and concealed indefinitely. US regulatory estimates said the material could be stored in roughly 16 cylinders about 91cm tall, each weighing about 25kg, comparable to large scuba tanks. Analysts and the IAEA said Iran had not decided to pursue weapons and had not detected a structured weapons programme, with the probability of weaponization below 50 per cent according to the Institute for Science and International Security; Khamenei’s death in the opening hours of the war triggered a succession process that could reshape nuclear decision-making, and his fatwa against nuclear weapons might be revisited by a successor. China and Russia joined Iran in saying “a sustainable diplomatic solution” remained possible at the IAEA. The US Central Command announced on March 8 that a US service member died from injuries sustained in the opening days of the war, bringing US deaths in the operation to seven. ### Analyzing the SpaceX IPO: What would it take to justify a $1.5 trillion market cap? | Fortune, 2026-03-08, by Shawn Tully: the piece said reports were swirling that Elon Musk planned an IPO for SpaceX this summer, and that after merging SpaceX with xAI he expected the combined company to raise $50 billion in capital and reach a $1.5 trillion market cap; the analysis argued that to justify such a valuation, the company would have to earn more than Berkshire Hathaway. The article said this would be the single biggest IPO capital raise of all time and would put the company second in total valuation only to Saudi Aramco, far ahead of Alibaba’s 2018 IPO valuation of $167 million. ### Trump encourages Latin American leaders to use military action to help US fight cartels - The Mainichi, 2026-03-08: at the Shield of the Americas Summit at Trump National Doral Miami in Doral, Fla., Trump urged leaders from Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guyana, Honduras, Panama, Paraguay, and Trinidad and Tobago to use militaries against drug trafficking cartels and transnational gangs, saying, “The only way to defeat these enemies is by unleashing the power of our militaries. We have to use our military. You have to use your military,” and that the U.S.-led coalition against the Islamic State group should be a model for eradicating cartels at home. The summit came after Trump ordered an audacious U.S. military operation to capture Venezuela’s then-president, Nicolas Maduro