Middle East War: Trump Admin Gives Update on 20,000 Americans Evacuated - Newsweek | 2026-03-05: Assistant Secretary of State Dylan Johnson said Thursday that “nearly 20,000 Americans have been evacuated” from the Middle East, but that count excluded Americans “who have departed the Middle East but are still in transit back to the United States.” The update came amid the ongoing U.S.-Israel war with Iran, launched early Saturday in “Operation Epic Fury” after failed talks over Iran’s nuclear program and its refusal to halt uranium enrichment, a “major demand” from the U.S.; the strikes killed Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. The BBC estimated “500,000 to 1 million Americans” were in the region at the time of the strike, and more than “23,000 flights” scheduled to fly to or from the Middle East had been canceled, leaving many stranded. Johnson said that “at the direction of Secretary [Marco] Rubio,” Department of State charter flight and ground transportation operations were underway and would “ramp up with additional flights and ground transports taking place today.” The State Department urged Americans to enroll at step.state.gov for embassy or consulate security updates and also released an online form for Americans in Bahrain, Israel, Kuwait, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, or the United Arab Emirates to arrange government-facilitated departure options. The article says “six U.S. service members have died” and the civilian death toll had reached “1,114,” according to the U.S.-based Human Rights Activists News Agency. The conflict widened as European governments rushed military assets into the region and the U.S. military posted on X that Iran’s “ability to impact U.S. forces and regional partners is rapidly declining, while American combat power continues to build.” Trump said the strikes were meant to crush Iran’s nuclear and missile capabilities and urged Iranians to “take over your government,” while in his Saturday speech he said: “Our objective is to defend the American people by eliminating imminent threats from the Iranian regime...Its menacing activities directly endanger the United States, our troops, our bases overseas and our allies throughout the world.” He also reiterated that Iran “can never have a nuclear weapon” and referenced “Operation Midnight Hammer last June” at Fordow, Natanz, and Isfahan, later boasting on Truth Social on Sunday: “I have just been informed that we have destroyed and sunk 9 Iranian Naval Ships... In a different attack, we largely destroyed their Naval Headquarters.” The Defense Intelligence Agency’s 2025 Worldwide Threat Assessment said Iran “almost certainly is not producing nuclear weapons,” though it has expanded enrichment and uranium stockpiles since 2019. Trump told reporters Tuesday there was no evacuation plan because it “happened all very quickly,” saying he had feared Iran was preparing to attack Israel and others. The Trump administration drew criticism, including from former Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene, who cited the “$3.8 BILLION every single year” the U.S. gives Israel and the Jerusalem embassy telling Americans “good luck getting out.” The State Department’s “depart now” warnings covered 14 countries: Bahrain, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Syria, the UAE and Yemen. Airports in Dubai and Abu Dhabi resumed limited flight operations, and Cirium said at least “90,000 people change flights daily” through Dubai, Doha and Abu Dhabi on Emirates, Qatar Airways and Etihad Airways. The Senate also voted against a resolution that would have limited Trump’s power to continue the war in Iran without congressional authorization, with only one Republican and one Democrat crossing party lines. ### Senate votes to block war powers resolution | 2026-03-05: This piece said the U.S.-Iran war was in its fifth day and spreading across the wider region. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said Wednesday on CNBC’s “Squawk Box” that the U.S. would provide measures to stabilize oil shipments in the Gulf and make “a series of announcements on energy transport in the region.” Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth, briefed alongside Joint Chiefs Chairman Gen. Dan Caine, said “America is winning decisively” and “more forces are arriving.” Iranians were preparing a three-day funeral ceremony for the death of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, killed in the opening salvos of the U.S.-Israeli war on Iran, while Iran kept up drone and missile strikes on neighboring countries for a fifth day. Gulf nations stressed their stockpiles remained sufficient. Executives from Lockheed Martin and RTX, the parent of Raytheon, were expected to meet White House officials Friday to discuss accelerating weapons production. Trump had said the U.S. had a “virtually unlimited supply” of “medium and upper medium grade” weapons, pushing back on reports that anti-drone defenses might be short of stock, and the UAE and Qatar denied reports their Patriot interceptor missile inventories were running low. ### Trump says he wants to be involved in picking Iran’s next leader as war ripples across the region | AP News | 2026-03-05: In Dubai, United Arab Emirates, the AP reported Thursday that Trump said he should be involved in choosing Iran’s next supreme leader as the U.S. and Israel hammered the country for a sixth day. Iran continued retaliatory attacks on Israel, American bases and countries around the region. Hegseth warned that American firepower over Tehran was “about to surge dramatically,” and the Israeli military said strikes had already destroyed most of Iran’s air defenses and missile launchers. Trump ruled out Mojtaba Khamenei, a front-runner to replace his father Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who was killed in the opening strikes, and told Axios, “We want someone that will bring harmony and peace to Iran”; he also said, “I have to be involved in the appointment, like with Delcy in Venezuela,” referring to Delcy Rodríguez, who took power in January after a U.S. military operation captured Nicolás Maduro and brought him to the U.S. The war was said to have affected an additional “14 countries” across the Middle East and beyond. Azerbaijan accused Iran of drone attacks, Tehran denied them, and Iran said the U.S. would “bitterly regret” torpedoing an Iranian warship near Sri Lanka a day earlier. Israel issued a mass evacuation warning for Beirut’s southern suburbs, U.N. peacekeepers reported ground combat in southern Lebanon, and the Lebanese health ministry said the death toll since renewed Israel-Hezbollah hostilities had risen to “123.” Trump urged Iranians to “help take back your country” and promised “immunity,” saying, “So you’ll be perfectly safe with total immunity... Or you’ll face absolutely guaranteed death.” The AP also reported Trump calling Mojtaba Khamenei “a lightweight.” Iran’s ambassador to Egypt, Mojtaba Ferdousi Pour, denied Iran wanted to negotiate and said, “There will be no trust in Trump.” Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi accused the U.S. Navy of an “atrocity at sea” for sinking the Iranian frigate IRIS Dena in the Indian Ocean, saying it killed at least “87 people”; Sri Lankan authorities said “32 crew members were rescued” and another ship with “more than 200 sailors” was escorted to a naval base outside Colombo. Iranian cleric Ayatollah Abdollah Javadi Amoli called for the shedding of both Israeli and “Trump’s blood.” U.S. Central Command said U.S. forces had sunk “more than 30” Iranian ships, including a drone carrier “roughly the size of a World War II aircraft carrier,” while Israeli Lt. Gen. Eyal Zamir said waves of strikes had destroyed “80%” of Iran’s air defenses and “60%” of its missile launchers, though “The threat has not yet been removed.” The U.S. Embassy in Kuwait was closed after air defense systems activated in response to incoming missiles; Iran had fired waves of missiles and drones at American-allied Kuwait, where a drone strike Sunday killed “six American soldiers.” In the UAE, a drone was shot down near Al Dhafra Air Base, wounding several people with falling shrapnel; Qatar evacuated residents near the U.S. Embassy in Doha and later reported a missile attack; Saudi Arabia destroyed a drone in a province bordering Jordan; Bahrain said an Iranian missile hit a state-run oil refinery Thursday; and Azerbaijan’s President Ilham Aliyev called a drone crash near an airport a “groundless act of terror and aggression” after it injured “four civilian workers.” The Iranian strikes also hit oil and shipping lanes in the Gulf of Oman and the Strait of Hormuz, which carry about “a fifth of the world’s oil,” sending oil prices up and U.S. stocks down. Israel struck Beirut’s southern suburbs after telling residents to “save your lives and evacuate your homes immediately,” two hospitals evacuated, and peacekeepers described more ground combat as Israeli troops crossed the border. ### Charting the widening impact of the Iran crisis on energy markets | Reuters | 2026-03-05: Reuters in Littleton, Colorado, said the war’s repercussions were being felt globally, with U.S. fuel prices, European natural gas costs and Asian tanker freight rates all jumping sharply since strikes began over the weekend. The global tanker fleet was described as one of the hardest-hit sectors after the “closure of the Strait of Hormuz,” through which “around a fifth of global oil, fuel and LNG travels.” Shipping crude oil from the Middle East to China became much pricier, with the cost of chartering a very large crude carrier (VLCC) rising from “around $120,000 a day last week” to “more than $450,000 a day” after fighting erupted. China’s domestic crude oil futures rose “by 31% since last Friday,” compared with “12% increases in Brent and U.S. crude oil futures” over the same period; China’s crude had been below Brent and Murban prices for most of 2026 before the crisis. Fuel tanker rates from Singapore to Japan and from the U.S. to Europe also jumped. Europe’s natural gas futures soared by “close to 70% since Friday,” with “December 2026” contracts gaining “around 40%,” after Qatar paused LNG loadings when its main gas liquefaction facilities were hit by Iranian drones over the weekend; nearby gas prices had risen “by more than 50%” in the wake of Iran’s strikes on Qatar. Nearby May Brent futures rose “by around 12% since Friday,” year-end Brent by “around 3%,” and nearby U.S. gasoline contracts climbed “by around 10% since late last week,” with all 2026 contracts up “an average of 6%.” Trump announced steps to restore ship traffic, including a proposal for the U.S. Navy to escort tankers through the Strait of Hormuz, but the column said the U.S., Israel and Iran were still “stepping up their bombing efforts” and energy prices were likely to keep rising. ### Who will be Iran’s next leader?; How Ukraine might help defend the Gulf : State of the World from NPR : NPR | 2026-03-05: NPR’s “State of the World” said a panel of clerics in Iran was meeting to decide the next leader of the fundamentalist regime after Ayatollah Ali Khamenei was killed in recent airstrikes. After nearly “40 years” of his rule, the choice could cement hardline continuity under his son or usher in a fundamentally transformed regime. The program also said that as Iranians attacked American bases in the Middle East with drones, Ukraine was offering its expertise, noting it had faced “more than 57 thousand” of the same type of drones over the “last four years.” ### Starmer stands by decision not to join US-Israeli strikes on Iran | 5 March 2026: Sir Keir Starmer said he stood by his decision not to join the initial US-Israel strikes on Iran on Saturday and argued talks would be the best way forward. At a Downing Street news conference, he said the UK had “the strength to stand by our values and our principles no matter the pressure to do otherwise,” and that the best path was a “negotiated settlement with Iran where they give up their nuclear ambitions,” with efforts to “de-escalate” the conflict. He said the conflict could continue for “some time” and announced the UK was sending “four additional Typhoon fighter jets to Qatar.” Trump criticized Starmer, saying he was “not Winston Churchill” and calling the initial refusal “shocking”; the UK later agreed on Sunday to a U.S. request to use British military bases only for defensive strikes on Iranian missile sites. Starmer said the “special relationship” was intact because the two countries were sharing intelligence “on a 24/7 basis.” The UK had begun pre-deploying assets earlier in the year, especially to Qatar and Cyprus, and defense sources said “400 additional UK personnel” had been sent over recent weeks to support air-defense activities across British bases in Cyprus. The UK deployed two Wildcat helicopters with anti-drone capabilities, and the warship HMS Dragon would sail to Cyprus, arriving “within the next couple of weeks”; a drone struck the runway at RAF Akrotiri on Sunday causing “minimal damage.” Conservative leader Kemi Badenoch said that once UK bases were attacked, Britain became part of the conflict “whether we liked it or not.” Healey said the drone was “probably fired from Lebanon” and declined to rule out joining strikes, noting the war “changes.” The UK also updated travel advice for Cyprus, warning that “the risk of a terrorist attack cannot be ruled out.” On the repatriation front, Starmer said the first government-chartered flight for Britons stranded in the Middle East had taken off from Oman after a technical delay, about “4,000 Britons” had already made it home, “more than 140,000 people” in the region had registered with the government, and a further “seven flights” were due to leave the UAE for the UK that day, with British Airways running daily flights from Oman. Iran had retaliated by launching attacks on Israel and U.S.-allied states in the Gulf, including Qatar, Bahrain, Jordan, the UAE, Kuwait, Oman and Saudi Arabia. ### How is the UK involved in the US-Israel war with Iran? - BBC Newsround | 5 March 2026, Updated 6 March 2026: BBC Newsround explained that war broke out on “28 February” when the U.S. and Israel launched air strikes against Iran and Iran responded by firing missiles at Israel and other U.S.-linked countries in the region. The UK’s involvement included allowing the U.S. to