PBS News Hour | U.S.-Iran talks end without deal, mediator reports progress | 2026-02-26: In Geneva, the U.S. and Iran concluded a third round of negotiations over Tehran’s nuclear program without a formal agreement, but the mediator said progress was made and Iranian officials announced that technical talks would begin on Monday with the UN nuclear watchdog, suggesting “some possible progress” even as the United States was deploying “the largest military presence to the Middle East in more than 20 years.” Stephanie Sy reported the story, and the central facts are that the talks were in Geneva, involved the United States and Iran, ended with “No deal reached,” and were followed by the promise of technical talks with “the UN nuclear watchdog” beginning Monday. ### CBS News | Can the U.S. and Iran reach a nuclear deal to avert a war? - CBS News | 2026-02-26: This report said anxiety was mounting about possible strikes against Iran as American and Iranian negotiators, brokered by Oman in Switzerland, held another round of talks on Iran’s nuclear program while President Trump threatened to attack Iran and the U.S. ordered the “biggest American military buildup in the Middle East in decades.” Omani Foreign Minister Badr Albusaidi told “Face the Nation” moderator Margaret Brennan that “substantial progress” had been made and that a “peace deal is within our reach,” but Trump said earlier Friday he was “not happy” with the pace of negotiations. The article emphasized that Iran says it does not have and will not build a nuclear weapon, while Trump says he will not allow Tehran to acquire one, echoing Barack Obama and Joe Biden’s position; it also recalled Trump’s first-term description of the Obama-era nuclear pact as “horrible” and his decision to pull the U.S. out, then noted his renewed threats to strike Iran if it does not curb its nuclear activities. Specifics included the U.S. State Department authorizing non-emergency personnel and their family members to leave Israel on Friday because of unspecified “safety risks,” Omani Foreign Minister Badr bin Hamad bin Hamoud Al Busaidi meeting Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi in Geneva on Feb. 25, 2026, and Araghchi saying Iran would “under no circumstances ever develop a nuclear weapon” and that “Enrichment is our right” under the NPT. Araghchi said there was “perhaps more seriousness on both sides than before,” that teams from both countries would work with the IAEA “to develop a framework for addressing some technical issues,” and that “we will have the fourth round of negotiations next week.” The story also quoted Sanam Vakil of Chatham House saying “War looks inevitable” and “it’s imminent — I mean it’s a matter of days,” and discussed the U.S. military buildup including the USS Gerald R. Ford aircraft carrier arriving at Souda Bay off Crete on Feb. 23, 2026. It cited Secretary of State Marco Rubio saying Iran is not currently enriching uranium but is trying to get to that point; Masih Alinejad saying a deal that left enrichment facilities and missiles intact would be a “total failure” and suggesting Trump might accept “a token enrichment program, as a research facility”; H.R. McMaster arguing the opening campaign of any U.S. attack would be “extensive, not a ‘signaling’ exercise”; and Omani mediators saying the first couple hours yielded “creative and positive ideas” and that they hoped to make more progress after a break. ### Reuters | US-Iran talks end with no deal but potential signs of progress | 2026-02-26: Reuters reported that the United States and Iran made progress in talks over Tehran’s nuclear program on Thursday, but hours of negotiation ended with no breakthrough that could avert potential U.S. strikes amid a massive military buildup. Omani Foreign Minister Sayyid Badr Albusaidi said technical-level discussions were scheduled to take place next week in Vienna, while he planned to hold talks with U.S. Vice President JD Vance and other U.S. officials in Washington on Friday; the article said indirect talks in Geneva involved Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araqchi and U.S. envoys Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner, with one session in the morning and a second in the afternoon. Albusaidi said, “We have finished the day after significant progress in the negotiation between the United States and Iran,” while Araqchi said, “We reached agreement on some issues, and there are differences regarding some other issues,” adding that the next round would be “in less than a week” and that Iran demanded lifting of U.S. sanctions. Reuters also quoted a senior Iranian official saying a framework could be reached if Washington separated “nuclear and non-nuclear issues,” while the Trump administration insisted Iran’s ballistic missile program and support for armed groups must be part of the talks; Rubio called Iran’s refusal to discuss missiles a “big problem” and said the missiles were “designed solely to strike America.” The article recalled Trump’s Feb. 19 warning that Iran must make a deal in “10 to 15 days” or face “really bad things,” his State of the Union comments about possible attack, the June strikes on Iranian nuclear sites by the U.S. and Israel, and the deployment of fighter jets and aircraft carrier strike groups since January. It also noted President Masoud Pezeshkian saying Khamenei had banned weapons of mass destruction and that Tehran “won’t develop nuclear weapons.” ### AP News | Iran would be outgunned in any war with the US but could still inflict considerable pain | 2026-02-26: Sam Metz’s AP report from Jerusalem said that as U.S. forces mass in the Middle East, Iran faces the threat of major strikes targeting leaders, military, nuclear sites and critical infrastructure, and although it is “outgunned,” it could still inflict considerable pain on American forces and allies. The piece said Iran still has “hundreds of missiles capable of hitting Israel” according to Israel’s estimates, and a much larger arsenal of shorter-range missiles capable of hitting U.S. bases in Gulf countries and offshore American forces, with a second aircraft carrier soon to join. Iran had threatened to close the Strait of Hormuz and claimed to have done so partially during military drills last week; Ayatollah Ali Khamenei warned Iran could sink American warships, and Iran’s U.N. ambassador Amir Saeid Iravani said “all bases, facilities and assets of the hostile force in the region” would be legitimate targets. The article said the U.S. and Israel’s June war left the extent of damage and rebuilding unclear, that Iran’s shorter-range missile arsenal was largely untouched, and that Tehran had held quiet talks with China about buying a version of the YJ-12 sea-skimming missile system, with the outline of a deal finalized after last year’s war but no missiles delivered. It also said Trump called Khamenei an “easy target,” that Iran’s self-described Axis of Resistance includes Houthi rebels in Yemen, armed groups in Iraq, Hezbollah in Lebanon, and Hamas in the Palestinian territories, and that U.S. strikes and the 2015 nuclear deal’s collapse led Iran to ramp up enrichment to build a near-weapons-grade stockpile, though Iran says it has been unable to enrich since the June strikes and has barred inspections. ### AP News | US and Iran wrap up latest talks as the risk of war looms | 2026-02-26: In Geneva, Iran and the United States held hours of indirect negotiations over Tehran’s nuclear program and walked away without a deal, leaving “the danger of another Mideast war on the table” as the U.S. had gathered “a massive fleet of aircraft and warships” in the region. Omani Foreign Minister Badr al-Busaidi said there had been “significant progress in the negotiation,” but Iranian state television reported just before the talks ended that Tehran was determined to continue enriching uranium, rejected proposals to transfer it abroad, and sought the lifting of international sanctions, signaling it was not prepared to meet Trump’s demands. The AP said technical talks with lower-level representatives would continue next week in Vienna at the home of the International Atomic Energy Agency, and that Abbas Araghchi called the Geneva sessions some of Iran’s “most intense and longest rounds of negotiations.” The article said if America attacks, Iran has warned U.S. bases in the region would be “legitimate targets,” putting tens of thousands of American service members at risk and potentially dragging in Israel and the wider region; Araghchi told India Today that there would be “no victory for anybody” and “it would be a devastating war.” It also quoted Ali Vaez of the International Crisis Group saying it was a good sign the Americans did not walk away immediately, Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Esmail Baghaei saying there were “constructive proposals” on nuclear issues and sanctions relief, and Rubio saying Iran is “always trying to rebuild elements” of its nuclear program and is not enriching right now, though satellite photos showed activity at two bombed sites. The story repeated that Trump wants Iran to completely halt enrichment, roll back its long-range missile program and support for armed groups, while Iran says it will only discuss nuclear issues; it also said oil prices had risen, with Brent crude around $70 a barrel, and that Iran had briefly halted traffic in the Strait of Hormuz, through which a fifth of all traded oil passes. ### Bloomberg - Business News, Stock Markets, Finance, Breaking & World News | Iran ‘Will Not Negotiate’ With US, Key Official Says | 2026-02-26: Bloomberg’s brief item on Feb. 26, 2026, said a key Iranian official declared Iran “will not negotiate” with the US, while the related links framed Trump’s Iran strikes as ushering in an era of “unrestrained American power,” said “Iran Switches to Survival Mode After Killing of Khamenei,” and noted “Hezbollah Fires on Israel in Response to Khamenei’s Death.” The key facts in the snippet are that Iran’s position was stated as refusing to negotiate with the U.S., and that the linked headlines referenced Trump’s targeted attacks and the killing of a sitting head of state, a volley of missiles and drones from Iran that trapped travelers in Dubai, Iran’s survival mode after Khamenei’s killing, and Hezbollah’s retaliatory fire on Israel. ### Bloomberg Europe | Saudi Arabia Destroys Incoming Drones as Attacks Widen | 2026-02-26: Bloomberg Europe’s lead line said Saudi Arabia destroyed incoming drones as attacks widened, and the accompanying “Big Take” said Trump’s war on Iran has traders staring down an energy crisis, with limited oil price surges signaling traders are betting on a short conflict, while a lengthy disruption threatens chaos across markets. It also said the U.S. had no immediate plan to tap oil reserves on Iran concerns, LNG tanker rates doubled to $200,000 in less than a day, Iran’s missile math pitted “$20,000 Drones” against “$4 Million Patriots,” and U.K. Prime Minister Keir Starmer implied Trump’s Iran war is unlawful and made clear Britain will not join its closest military partner in offensive action against Iran, prompting Trump to scold Starmer for the UK’s reluctance. ### USA TODAY NETWORK | Is Trump being impeached? What odds say today | 2026-02-26: This article said Donald Trump is not currently being impeached despite mounting calls from Democratic lawmakers, petitions, protests, and lawmakers such as Rep. Al Green, who has already sponsored multiple House resolutions to impeach him. Trump told House Republicans last month, “You got to win the midterms because if we don’t win the midterms, it’s just going to be — I mean, they’ll find a reason to impeach me. I’ll get impeached.” The piece explained impeachment requires a majority vote in the House and a two-thirds Senate majority to convict and remove, noted Trump was impeached twice in his first term and acquitted both times, and said a third impeachment would face barriers because Republicans controlled both the House and Senate. It gave the 2026 midterms date as Tuesday, Nov. 3, 2026; cited RealClearPolling’s generic Congressional vote numbers of 47.5% Democratic and 42.9% Republican; and reported Polymarket odds of a 14% chance Trump would be impeached by end of 2026, with Kalshi showing 5% by Jun. 1, 2026, 14% by Jan. 1, 2027, and 65% by Jan. 1, 2028. ### Al Jazeera | Ukraine’s Zelenskyy says next Russia talks likely in Abu Dhabi next month | Russia-Ukraine war News | 2026-02-26: Al Jazeera said Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy expected the next round of U.S.-brokered negotiations with Russia to take place in Abu Dhabi in early March after Ukrainian officials wrapped up a meeting with U.S. envoys in Geneva at the city’s Hotel des Bergues. Senior U.S. and Ukrainian officials discussed post-war reconstruction plans amid the broader U.S. push to end Russia’s war on Ukraine, now in its fifth year, and Zelenskyy said there was “already more readiness for the next trilateral format” and that he wanted a “meeting at the leadership level” with Vladimir Putin. Rustem Umerov, who led Ukraine’s four-person delegation, said negotiators were finalizing economic and security issues to make the next trilateral meeting involving the U.S. and Russia “as substantive as possible,” and that “We worked out a document on the restoration of Ukraine” with the Americans, including Trump envoys Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner. Putin’s envoy Kirill Dmitriev also held talks in Geneva, but Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said Russia had no deadlines, only tasks. The article said Russia transferred the bodies of 1,000 dead Ukrainian soldiers in exchange for 35 Russians, that Russia fired 39 missiles and 420 drones overnight, wounding at least 25 people, including 16 in Kharkiv, seven in Zaporizhia, and two in Kryvyi Rih, while Kyiv’s Darnytskyi district had damage to a nine-storey residential building and fires elsewhere. The report said negotiations have stalled over territory, especially the eastern Donbas and the eastern Donetsk region, with Russia demanding control of Donetsk and Ukraine demanding security guarantees and refusing to cede territory because the constitution forbids it. ### Foreign Affairs | Ukraine Is Losing the War | 2026-02-26: Michael C. Desch’s essay argued “With Moscow Pressing Its Advantage, Kyiv Should Trade Land for Peace,”