What we know about the U.S.-Israel attacks on Iran

UPDATE as of March 2, 2026: Since the lesson was originally published on Feb. 28, 2026, the U.S. reported six American service members have been killed and four others seriously wounded in an Iranian drone strike in Kuwait. In a separate incident, Kuwait mistakenly shot down 3 American jets(crew all survived). At least 153 Iranians, mostly children, have been killed at an all-girls elementary school in southern Iran. For more Iran War lessons, see here.

### SUMMARY

The U.S.-Israel attack on Iran was "not the limited strike that was considered by the president or his aides, nor was this even limited to Iran's nuclear or missile program," PBS News' Nick Schifrin says. It's "a war to overthrow the Iranian regime — and not quick," he added. President Donald Trump said Saturday the mission could take days or weeks. "There's no guarantee of success, and there's no knowing what will happen after that," Schifrin said.

Media literacy: What do you know about the elementary school in Iran that was bombed based on this story?

The AP story Iran vows revenge after the killing of its supreme leader and trades strikes with Israel in widening war describes the celebrations taking place in Iran followed by news about the school. Who reported the bombing? How could you find out more? How do you feel reading these two paragraphs back to back? What might it tell you about war and war reporting?

"It was one of the best nights, if not the best night of our lives," the doctor said in a voice message from the city of Rasht in northern Iran. In fact, "It was actually my first time ever smoking a cigarette. It was a very very nice time. We didn't sleep at all. And we don't even feel tired."

In southern Iran, at least 115 people were reported killed when a girls' school was struck, and dozens more were wounded, the local governor told Iranian state TV. The Israeli military said it was not aware of any strikes in the area, and the U.S. military said it was looking into the reports."