The New York Times - Breaking News, US News, World News and Videos

The Israeli military struck several Iranian fuel sites, while Iran’s de facto leader vowed to seek vengeance for the killing of the nation’s supreme leader.

Trump Witnesses Return of Bodies of 6 U.S. Service Members

4 min read

An enormous fire at an oil storage facility northeast of the city.

An explosion appearing from the direction of an oil depot south of the city.

An Israeli strike that hit near Mehrabad Airport in Tehran created fires and pillars of smoke.

Volunteers handed out meals to displaced people and refugees at a community kitchen in Beirut.

In War’s First Week, a Punishing Military Campaign With No Coherent Endgame

11 min read

How We Analyzed the Strike on the Iranian School

How D.H.S. Retreated on Immigration Tactics After Minneapolis

Agents have conducted more targeted operations, rather than street sweeps, leading to a dip in arrests — at least for now.

6 min read

Judge Voids Mass Layoffs at Voice of America

The federal judge’s ruling said that Kari Lake’s appointment to oversee the parent agency of the government-funded news group was invalid.

2 min read

When DOGE Unleashed ChatGPT on the National Endowment for the Humanities

10 min read

Trump Assembles a New Coalition to ‘Eradicate’ Cartels

5 min read

Punching, Slamming, Screaming: A Chef’s Past Abuse Haunts Noma, the World’s Top-Rated Restaurant

Dozens of former employees say René Redzepi inflicted physical and psychological violence on the staff for years.

8 min read

John McConnico and Ditte Isager for The New York Times

In Russia’s Former Capital, Restoring the Past to Survive the Present

With political activism off-limits, residents of St. Petersburg are finding solace in the “politics of small deeds,” repairing and cleaning architectural gems.

5 min read

Mary Gelman for The New York Times

He Wrote Judy Blume’s Life Story. She Won’t Talk About It.

Mark Oppenheimer had many conversations with his subject for his new book, which comes out on Tuesday. Then the relationship took a turn.

8 min read

Jillian Freyer for The New York Times

Gen Z-Backed Rapper Is on Course to Lead Nepal With Landslide Win

Balendra Shah, a 35-year-old onetime rap artist and former mayor of the country’s capital, was on course to become the next prime minister.

4 min read

Epstein Doctor Steps Away From Elite Health Clinics

Dr. Bernard Kruger once gave a private E.R. membership to Jeffrey Epstein and unnamed “girls.”

2 min read

Young New Yorkers Decided the Revolution Will Have Roommates

Mayor Zohran Mamdani’s focus on freezing the rent as part of his affordability platform has unleashed a new political force of younger renters.

4 min read

Ian Huntley, Whose Murder of Schoolgirls Appalled Britain, Dies After Prison Attack

The 2002 deaths of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, and the manhunt that led to a local school caretaker, shook the U.K.

2 min read