Nebius Names Dan Lawrence to Lead Expansion in the US as Senior Vice President and General Manager for the Americas | AP News var _comscore = _comscore || []; _comscore.push({ c1: "2", c2: "3005041" }); (function () { var s = document.createElement("script"), el = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.async = true; s.src = "https://sb.scorecardresearch.com/cs/3005041/beacon.js"; el.parentNode.insertBefore(s, el); })();

Sign in

Sign in

PRESS RELEASE: Paid Content from Business Wire. The AP news staff was not involved in its creation.

# Nebius Names Dan Lawrence to Lead Expansion in the US as Senior Vice President and General Manager for the Americas

AMSTERDAM--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Mar 9, 2026--

Nebius (NASDAQ: NBIS), the AI cloud company, today announced the appointment of Dan Lawrence as Senior Vice President and General Manager for the Americas. Lawrence will lead the company’s rapid North American expansion and scale its commercial organization to meet unprecedented demand for purpose-built AI infrastructure.

Based in the Boston area, Lawrence is tasked with significantly scaling Nebius’s regional go-to-market engine across four key customer segments: strategic, enterprise, ISV and AI-native. As Nebius continues building out gigawatts of capacity in the US, Lawrence will ramp up the teams and operational foundations required to capture demand in the company’s key market and support customers deploying next-generation AI workloads.

Lawrence brings deep experience building and operating cloud businesses at multi-billion-dollar scale. Most recently, he served as Senior Vice President of Global Sales for Cloud at Akamai Technologies, where he built the go-to-market model and rapidly scaled its compute business to approach $1 billion in revenue. Prior to Akamai, Lawrence held senior leadership roles at Amazon Web Services, managing global enterprise engagements and supporting hyperscale cloud, AI and next-generation infrastructure businesses.

Marc Boroditsky, Chief Revenue Officer at Nebius, said:

“The Americas is a fantastic market for Nebius, and Dan is joining us at a pivotal moment as we deploy significant new compute capacity across the US and expand our sales and distribution. He brings a strong track record of building high-performing go-to-market organizations and successfully scaling cloud businesses to the billion-dollar mark. As we rapidly expand our footprint in the Americas, Dan’s hyperscaler experience and builder mindset are exactly what we need to accelerate our growth in the world’s largest market for AI.”

Dan Lawrence, Senior Vice President and General Manager for the Americas at Nebius, said:

“We’re at an inflection point in computing, and powering the next wave of AI requires a fundamentally different kind of cloud. Nebius stands out for three reasons. First, the team has the rare engineering DNA to design and operate the entire stack. Second, the company’s strong financial position allows us to deploy capital and capacity at a unique scale. And third, the pace of software innovation here is extraordinary. I’m excited to help build our presence in the Americas and bring this purpose-built AI cloud platform to builders across the region.”

Lawrence’s appointment marks another major step in Nebius’s rapid expansion, following the recent approval of its first gigawatt-scale AI factory in the US. As one of the world’s largest independent AI cloud players, Nebius is aggressively expanding its geographical footprint globally. Backed by a strong financial position, the company is deploying significant new capacity and developing gigawatt-scale data center campuses to power the next generation of AI innovation.

About Nebius

Nebius, the AI cloud company, is building the full-stack platform for developers and companies to take charge of their AI future — from data and model training to production deployment. Founded on deep in-house technological expertise and operating at scale with a rapidly expanding global footprint, Nebius serves startups and enterprises building AI products, agents and services worldwide.

Nebius is listed on Nasdaq (NASDAQ: NBIS) and headquartered in Amsterdam.

For more information please visit www.nebius.com

Forward-Looking Statements

This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which involve risks and uncertainties. All statements contained in this press release other than statements of historical fact, including, without limitation, statements regarding our expansion plans in the Americas, planned hiring initiatives, establishment of a regional headquarters in San Francisco, development of gigawatt-scale data center capacity in the US, and expected business growth, are forward-looking statements. The words “anticipate,” “believe,” “continue,” “estimate,” “expect,” “guide,” “intend,” “likely,” “may,” “will” and similar expressions and their negatives are intended to identify forward-looking statements.

These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, some of which are beyond our control. Actual results may differ materially from the results predicted or implied by such statements, and our reported results should not be considered as an indication of future performance. The potential risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from the results predicted or implied by such statements include, among others: market, macroeconomic and geopolitical conditions; our ability to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel; potential construction delays or complications in data center development; our ability to secure necessary permits and regulatory approvals; competitive pressures; technological developments; our ability to secure and retain clients; our ability to secure additional capital to enable the growth of the business; as well as those risks and uncertainties related to our continuing businesses included under the captions “Risk Factors” and “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” in our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2024, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on April 30, 2025.

All information in this press release is as of the date hereof (unless stated otherwise). Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, after the date on which the statements are made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

In addition, statements that “we believe” and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date hereof and, while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain, and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20260309655149/en/

CONTACT: Investor Relations: [[email protected]]

Media Relations: [[email protected]]

KEYWORD: MASSACHUSETTS EUROPE UNITED STATES NETHERLANDS NORTH AMERICA

INDUSTRY KEYWORD: DATA MANAGEMENT OTHER TECHNOLOGY TECHNOLOGY ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE SOFTWARE

SOURCE: Nebius

Copyright Business Wire 2026.

PUB: 03/09/2026 08:00 AM/DISC: 03/09/2026 08:00 AM

http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20260309655149/en