White House spokesperson Karoline Leavitt Tuesday clarified that US Navy did not escort a tanker through the Strait of Hormuz at this time but added that it remains an option that the president will utilize if and when necessary. Hours before Leavitt's press conference, US energy secretary Chris Wright claimed that the US military provided protection for an oil tanker traveling through the Strait of Hormuz. But teh post was deleted within an hour.“President Trump is maintaining stability of global energy during the military operations against Iran,” Wright wrote and then swiftly deleted. “The US Navy successfully escorted an oil tanker through the Strait of Hormuz to ensure oil remains flowing to global markets," the post added.

Wright's post added confusion as trade through Hormuz has come to a standstill amid fears of Iranian strikes since the US and Israel launched the war against Iran on February 28. More than 20 percent of the world's oil travels through the Strait, which is a narrow passage between Iran, Oman and the UAE. On March 3, Trump said that the US Development Finance Corporation would offer political risk insurance and guarantees for vessels traveling through the Strait at a very reasonable price.

“If necessary, the United States Navy will begin escorting tankers through the Strait of Hormuz, as soon as possible,” Trump wrote. “No matter what, the United States will ensure the FREE FLOW of ENERGY to the WORLD.”Leavitt said she was made aware of the social media post by Wright, but she had not spoken to the energy secretary on the issues. Leavitt said she was informed that the post was taken down quickly. What made Wright to make the post remained a mystery. General Dan Caine, the head of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff, also signalled on Tuesday that the US military had yet to begin any operations to protect oil tankers in the strait.After Wright's post, Iran Now reported that Wright's claim had no basis of truth as a source in the IRGC naval force claimed that Wright's post was a part of a media war and attempts to mislead public opinion.