# Day 9 of Middle East conflict — new Iranian leader named, global markets react to oil surges

Khamenei’s name as Iran’s leader will continue, a member of Iran’s Assembly of Experts, the body tasked with choosing Iran’s next supreme leader, said Sunday, although a final decision has not yet been announced.

In a video carried by Iranian media, Hosseinali Eshkevari said “the issue of determining the leadership… has been completed.”

Eshkevari’s comment suggests that Mojtaba Khamenei, the second son of the slain Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, will be announced supreme leader.

Khamenei, 56, is a mid-ranking cleric who does not hold an official role in the regime, but who is known to have strong links to the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC).

US President Donald Trump said Thursday that Khamenei’s appointment as his father’s successor would be “unacceptable” to him.

Health-care workers at the Karapitiya hospital in Galle, Sri Lanka, carry the bodies of Iranian sailors who died in a US torpedo attack on the frigate IRIS Dena off Sri Lanka's southern coast on March 4, 2026.

Iran said at least 104 crew members were killed and 32 others injured in a US attack on the Iranian warship Iris Dena last week, the semi-official Fars News Agency reported Sunday, citing official sources.

US Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth said Wednesday that a US submarine sank an Iranian warship in international waters.

The injured crew members were taken to a hospital in Sri Lanka for treatment after authorities there launched a rescue mission, according to Fars.

President Donald Trump said Sunday that the new supreme leader “is not going to last long” without his approval as Iran prepares to announce a successor to its longtime ruler, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.

“He’s going to have to get approval from us,” Trump told ABC News in an interview. “If he doesn’t get approval from us he’s not going to last long.”

Trump has repeatedly said he wants to be involved in the selection of Iran’s next leader, saying yesterday that he doesn’t “want to come back every 10 years.”

“We want to pick a president that’s not going to be leading their country into a war,” he told reporters aboard Air Force One on Saturday.

Trump previously told CNN he was open to having a religious leader in Iran.

“I mean, it depends on who the person is. I don’t mind religious leaders. I deal with a lot of religious leaders and they are fantastic,” he said last week.

The sun has set in Tehran, and the Israeli military said it has begun “wide-scale strikes” on Iranian regime targets inside the capital of Tehran and elsewhere in the country.

A CNN team on the ground in Tehran said it heard a wave of strikes a short while ago. The Israeli military hit what it said was the headquarters of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps’ aerospace force in the new attack.

This comes after Tehran’s energy resources suffered a blow from a targeted Israeli onslaught overnight:

If you’re just tuning in, here’s what else you should know:

- US-UK relations: British Prime Minister Keir Starmer spoke with President Donald Trump Sunday, Downing Street said. This comes after Trump slammed the UK for their delayed deployment of aircraft carriers.
- Iran’s new supreme leader: Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi says “nobody knows” who will be next supreme leader amid reports that the body responsible has selected a replacement for Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
- Gulf countries weigh in: The United Arab Emirates doesn’t seek to be drawn into an escalation with Iran but reserves the right to protect its sovereignty, the foreign ministry said. Separately, Oman, warned that the Middle East stands at a “dangerous turning point.”
- US Central Command issued a warning to Iranian people that Iran was putting them at risk by using “heavily populated civilian areas” to launch drones and ballistic missiles, potentially making those areas military targets.
- Tehran focusing arsenal on US bases: Iran is using 60% of its firepower to attack US bases and “strategic interests” in the Middle East, the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps said.
- Trump admin on high gas prices: US President Donald Trump called soaring gas and diesel prices “a little glitch,” appearing unconcerned about the war’s effect on Americans at the pump. US Energy Secretary Chris Wright told CNN the US has “no plans” to strike Iran’s oil industry or other energy infrastructure, as Israel has done. Wright sought to assure Americans that average gas prices would fall back below $3 within weeks.

Two people were killed and 12 others injured after a military projectile struck a residential facility in Al-Kharj, about 107 km (66 miles) southeast of Riyadh, Saudi Civil Defense said. The incident marks the first reported deaths in the kingdom since the start of the war with Iran.

Saudi Civil Defense said emergency teams responded on Sunday after the projectile struck a housing site used by a maintenance and cleaning company.

The statement did not specify who launched the projectile.

Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps said earlier on Sunday that it had targeted radar systems at several locations, including in Al-Kharj, Iran’s state broadcaster IRIB reported.

Al-Kharj lies near Prince Sultan Air Base, a major Saudi air force installation southeast of Riyadh that has been targeted by Iran repeatedly in recent days.

The two killed were an Indian and a Bangladeshi national, while the 12 injured were all Bangladeshi.

Interior Secretary Doug Burgum argued Sunday that the rise in gas prices amid the war with Iran is not due to a global oil shortage, but rather a “transit issue” caused by disruptions to shipping through the Strait of Hormuz.

“This is not about lack of oil in the world. This is about a transit issue. This is about the Strait of Hormuz,” Burgum said on Fox News’ “Sunday Briefing.”

Burgum echoed other Trump administration officials, saying that with sustained military success, oil can be expected to start flowing out of the strait again “in the weeks ahead.”

He also argued the US has limited reliance on the region, saying only roughly 3% of US energy imports move through the strait.

Very few ships have transited the Strait of Hormuz, a crucial channel through which 20% of the world’s oil passes, since the war began more than a week ago.

Asked whether alternative supply could offset any Middle East disruptions, Burgum argued US energy production and Venezuelan resources can help counteract the gap, saying there is enough energy “because Venezuela is part of this equation now.”

More on gas prices: Since the fighting started in Iran a week ago, gasoline prices are up 47 cents, or 16%, to $3.45 for a gallon of regular, according to Sunday’s AAA reading.

British Prime Minister Keir Starmer spoke with Donald Trump about the Middle East on Sunday, Starmer’s office said in a statement, a day after the US president criticized the United Kingdom’s lack of immediate support for the US-Israeli strikes on Iran.

It added that Starmer shared his “heartfelt condolences” with Trump and the American people following the deaths of six US service members during the conflict with Iran.

CNN has reached out to the White House for comment.

Some key context: The call came after Trump on Saturday slammed Britain on social media for “finally giving serious thought” to deploying aircraft carriers to the Middle East.

He told Starmer “we don’t need them anymore,” but stressed: “We will remember. We don’t need people that join Wars after we’ve already won!”

Trump’s post was the second time he has criticized Starmer in recent days. At the White House on Tuesday, Trump said he was “not happy” with Starmer.

In Parliament on Wednesday, Starmer said he was not prepared for Britain “to join a war unless I was satisfied there was a lawful basis and a viable, thought-through plan.”

Several Democratic lawmakers are signaling their opposition to a potential request for more funding for the Pentagon in light of the Iran war, arguing the Trump administration has not adequately outlined its objectives or expectations for how long the war might last.

Congress last year authorized nearly $900 billion in funding for military programs in a bipartisan package to fund the Defense Department through this fiscal year. But the Trump administration has briefed lawmakers on the potential need for more money amid the conflict, which analysts estimate is costing American taxpayers more than $890 million a day.

“At this particular point in time, the administration has failed to make its case as to the rationale or justification for this war of choice in the Middle East,” House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries told NBC’s “Meet the Press” today.

It was unclear even after the Trump administration’s briefings with lawmakers how much money the Pentagon may ask for, when that request would come and how long officials expect the war to last.

The chances of advancing a package with the 60 votes needed in the Senate are also uncertain, as some Democrats, like Sen. Chris Murphy, make clear they are firmly opposed.

“If you support the troops, then you should be voting against funding this war so that we get our troops out of harm’s way,” Murphy told CNN’s “State of the Union.”

Most Senate Republicans opposed an effort to rein in Trump’s war powers in Iran last week, but some have indicated their position may change if the conflict drags on. Opposition from some Republicans could prove tricky for the administration’s efforts to get more money out of Congress.

President Donald Trump called higher gas prices “a little glitch,” appearing unconcerned about the effect on Americans at the pump as the war with Iran has reached its ninth day.

“I think it’s fine. It’s a little glitch. We had to take this detour. I knew exactly what was going to happen with the detour,” Trump told ABC News in an interview. “But the nice part is we sank 44 of their ships, which is their entire navy,” he said, going on to tout the US military’s efforts in the war.

Since the fighting started in Iran a week ago, gasoline prices are up 47 cents, or 16%, to $3.45 for a gallon of regular, according to Sunday’s AAA reading.

War’s popularity: Trump also claimed that the US conflict with Iran is “more popular than ever,” despite polling that suggests otherwise and dissent from some MAGA Republicans.

“It’s a very MAGA thing what we’re doing,” he said, adding, “Because otherwise we won’t have a country either, we’ll be hit. And MAGA is all about saving America.”

Fifty-nine percent of Americans disapproved of the initial decision to strike Iran, according to a CNN/SSRS poll conducted shortly after the war began, with 41% approving. In an NBC News poll released Sunday, his approval for handling Iran also stood at 41%.

Dignified transfer: The president told ABC that meeting yesterday with the families of the six US service members killed in the war did not give him pause.

“The parents would be upset if I did that,” he said. “The parents said to me, every one of them, ‘Please sir, win this for my boy,’ and in one case a young woman, as you know. ‘Please, win this for my child.’”

Thousands of people who were stranded in the Middle East have been evacuated on repatriation flights in recent days, according to local authorities, as the current conflict spirals across the region.

- Thailand: A total of 62 Thai nationals have been evacuated from Iran to Turkey so far, Thailand’s foreign ministry said Sunday. They will be flown to Thailand early next week, it said.
- Estonia: Estonians evacuated the region on a flight to Tallinn, as well as the above flight to Riga, Estonia’s foreign minister said Saturday morning. Four more flights were planned to depart Dubai this weekend, he said.
- Latvia: Two airBaltic flights left Dubai on Friday and traveled to Riga, Latvia’s capital, according to the country’s prime minister.
- Malta: Maltese nationals who were stranded in Qatar were evacuated to Berlin on Sunday morning, the Embassy of Malta in Qatar said on X.
- Belgium: 195 Belgians arrived in Brussels on Sunday morning after evacuating Muscat, according to Belgium’s foreign ministry.
- Luxembourg: Four repatriation flights carrying 516 passengers total have evacuated people from Oman to Luxembourg, the country’s foreign ministry said Saturday morning,
- Poland: Three aircraft carrying 282 Polish citizens landed in Warsaw on Saturday evening, its foreign ministry said on X. All passengers were evacuated from Qatar.
- Greece: More than 500 Greek citizens and their families were evacuated from Dubai, Qatar, Kuwait and Bahrain to Athens on Saturday, Greece’s foreign ministry said in a statement.
- Germany: More than 650 people have been evacuated on three government-organized flights from Muscat, Oman to Frankfurt in the last week, a source from German Federal Foreign Office told CNN. A fourth flight from Riyadh, Saudi Arabia was on its way to Germany on Sunday afternoon, they said.
- UK: Two charter flights have left Oman for the United Kingdom, with a third planned to depart on Sunday, the British foreign office said on Saturday night. Almost 27,000 Brits have left the region since March 1, it said, though it did not clarify if this number includes people who traveled back to the UK without government assistance.
- US: The United States has facilitated “nearly two dozen charter flights and has safely evacuated thousands of Americans from the Middle East,” Assistant Secretary of State Dylan Johnson said. The US State Department has “directly assisted over 19,000 Americans abroad, offering security guidance and travel assistance,” Johnson added.

The United Arab Emirates doesn’t seek to be drawn into an escalation with Iran but reserves the right to protect its sovereignty, the foreign ministry said.

“The UAE stresses that it does not seek to be drawn into conflicts or escalation,” foreign ministry spokesperson Afra Al Hameli posted on X. “However, the UAE reaffirms its full right to take all necessary measures to safeguard its sovereignty, national security, and territorial integrity… in accordance with international law and the UN Charter.”

The UAE has been among the hardest hit of the roughly dozen countries that have reported being struck by Iranian projectiles.

Earlier on Sunday, the Jerusalem Post reported that the UAE had struck an Iranian desalination plant in its first attack on the country, citing an unidentified Israeli source. The paper later cited a UAE official denying the report.

Anwar Gargash, adviser to the UAE president, said on X that the country was in a defensive position in the war and that any measures it takes “will be public and clear, and will not rely on press leaks or narratives from unknown sources and intentions.”

The Jerusalem Post last week reported, citing unidentified Western diplomats, that Qatar had carried out its first strike against Iran, which Qatar denied.

Gulf Arab states rely heavily on desalination plants for much of their drinking water.

The Israeli military said it has begun “wide-scale strikes” on Iranian regime targets in capital city Tehran and in “additional areas” in the country.

A CNN team on the ground in Tehran heard a wave of strikes a short while ago.

The Israeli military said a short while ago that it had carried out another wave of strikes in Tehran, hitting what it said was the headquarters of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps’ aerospace force.

The site was used for research purposes and satellite monitoring, according to the Israeli military.

In addition, the IDF said it had struck dozens of other sites including around 50 bunkers that it said stored ammunition, as well as an IRGC compound and an internal security center.

Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi says “nobody knows” who will be next supreme leader amid reports that the body responsible has selected a replacement for Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.

Speaking on NBC’s “Meet The Press” on Sunday, Araghchi said, “There are lots of rumors around, but we have to wait for the Assembly of Experts to convene and vote for the new Supreme Leader.”

The Assembly is an 88-member body of senior clerics that selects Iran’s Supreme Leader. Its members are elected by Iranian voters.

Araghchi said that until the assembly convenes, the interim leadership council is in charge, and all Iranian institutions are carrying out their work. Some observers say that a new leader can’t be appointed until the assembly meets in person.

Araghchi was also asked about US President Donald Trump’s assertion that he must have a say in the election of new leadership for Iran.

Nor would Iran accept Trump’s demand for unconditional surrender, he said.

He said that in June last year, Iran had accepted a ceasefire, but this time there needed to be a permanent end to the war.

“No one wants to continue this war,” Araghchi said, adding that Iran will continue to act in self-defense.

He insisted Iran was not attacking its neighbors but rather US facilities and installations in Gulf Arab countries.

Republican Sen. Thom Tillis said President Donald Trump owes the American people and Congress “clarity” on the operation in Iran.

“I think that we need to articulate our objectives and our goals, because the American people right now are questioning whether or not we should be in this war,” he told CNN’s Jake Tapper on “State of the Union.”

Tillis said clarity on those aspects of the conflict would allow them to “start building support for an engagement that could go on for more than the two months” under the War Powers Resolution.

Tillis said if the conflict went beyond the two months, then the president would have to come to Congress.

“I think beyond that 60-day period within the War Powers resolution, there has to either be a very clear commitment long term and a request in Congress, or, I believe, a cessation of hostilities,” he said.