Warner Bros' Oscar triumph a bittersweet moment as Paramount deal looms | Reuters

- Companies
- Summary

- Industry fears consolidation amid streaming, labor pressures
- Paramount's $110 billion deal to reshape Hollywood studios
- Warner Bros wins 11 awards on movies' biggest night

LOS ANGELES, March 15 (Reuters) - Warner Bros (WBD.O) emerged as the biggest winner at the Academy Awards on Sunday, ​though the mood was clouded by its pending $110 billion sale to Paramount Skydance (PSKY.O), a deal reshaping ‌Hollywood's studio landscape.

The studio received 11 Oscars, led by "One Battle After Another," a tale of violent resistance in a dystopian America, which received six awards, including for best picture, director and supporting actor. "Sinners," Warner Bros' genre-defying fantasia set in the Jim Crow South, collected four Academy ​Awards, including lead actor.

Sign up here.

"I want to thank Warner Bros," said Michael B. Jordan, who won the best ​actor Oscar for playing twin brothers in "Sinners," lauding the studio for "betting on original ideas and ⁠artistry."

Warner Bros became the focus of a months-long bidding war between Paramount Skydance (PSKY.O) and Netflix (NFLX.O) for the studio's corporate ​parent, Warner Bros Discovery. Paramount CEO David Ellison prevailed with a higher bid, backed by his billionaire father, Oracle co-founder Larry ​Ellison.

The deal will merge two of Hollywood’s storied studios, narrowing the ranks of major film players at a time of accelerating consolidation and mounting pressure from streaming rivals, labor unrest and higher costs.

"It will be impossible to ignore that we will be celebrating the achievements of ​filmmaking with one less studio on the horizon," said veteran Hollywood marketing executive Terry Press. "It’s gut-wrenching."

Hollywood has already been ​shaken by a drawn-out industry strike and the specter of artificial intelligence taking jobs. The prospect of studio consolidation has left the ‌industry on ⁠edge as Paramount eyes $6 billion in cost savings from the deal.

Ellison has pledged to deliver a total of 30 films a year, evenly split between Paramount and Warner Bros, which delivered a slate of box-office-topping hits last year, including "Superman" and "A Minecraft Movie."

Streaming service Netflix (NFLX.O) received a total of seven Academy Awards, led by Guillermo del Toro's adaptation of Mary Shelley's ​gothic novel, "Frankenstein." It garnered three ​Oscars: for hair and ⁠makeup, production and costume design. Netflix also won the Oscar for animated feature film for "KPop Demon Hunters," and best song from that film.

NBCUniversal (CMCSA.O) received a total of 13 Oscar nominations ​across three films from Focus Features, and one nomination for Universal Pictures' "Jurassic World Rebirth." ​Its Focus Features ⁠unit received an Academy Award for lead actress for Jessie Buckley's portrayal of Agnes in "Hamnet."

Independent film powerhouse A24's film about a table-tennis shark, "Marty Supreme," received nine nominations, including for best picture, director and lead actor, and was knocked out of the competition ⁠by ​Oscar voters.

Walt Disney (DIS.N)'s 20th Century Studios received a single visual effects Oscar ​for "Avatar: Fire and Ash," after receiving a total of five nominations. Tech giant Apple (AAPL.O), which collected a record 15 Primetime Emmy Awards in the fall, ​received an Academy Award for best sound.

Reporting by Dawn Chmielewski in Los Angeles; Editing by Howard Goller and Nick Zieminski