Joint strikes on Iran spark massive Middle East conflict

The US and Israel have launched a "massive" military operation, striking multiple Iranian targets. CNN's Jeremy Diamond analyzes how the events quickly unfolded.

Missiles appear to be intercepted above Doha

After strikes were launched on Iran by the US and Israel, Iran appears to be striking US targets in several countries at once, with blasts heard from the beaches of Dubai to the streets of Doha. CNN's Bijan Hosseini reports from Doha.

Trump encourages Iranians to take over their government

In a video posted to Truth Social, President Donald Trump encouraged Iranians to seize control of their government when US military operations conclude. “This will be probably your only chance for generations,” Trump said. He also warned American lives may be lost as a result of his military operation inside Iran.

Transgender Americans look abroad for safety

Ruby Mae Johnson tells CNN she left Kansas for the Netherlands amid fears about anti-trans policies and rhetoric. The interview comes as Kansas enacted a new law that voided Johnson’s IDs by requiring driver’s licenses and birth certificates to list sex assigned at birth.

Pokémon turns 30

Inspired by a Japanese video game designer’s childhood love of bug collecting, Pokémon launched in 1996 and reportedly became the highest-grossing media franchise in the world. Today, it turns 30 years old.

Deadly tram derailment kills two in central Milan

A tram derailment close to central Milan has left two dead and around 40 injured after the tram came off the tracks.

Afghanistan and Pakistan exchange cross-border attacks

The latest flare-up pitches Pakistan’s well-funded, powerful, and nuclear-armed military against hardened Afghan Taliban fighters with decades of battle experience – including victory over US and NATO forces in 2021 after years of insurgency. CNN's Ivan Watson reports.

Video of girl being shoved in Japan sparks online outrage

A social media video that shows a woman pushing a girl at Tokyo’s Shibuya Crossing has sparked online outrage and speculations. CNN’s Hanako Montgomery reports.

Marco Rubio: US investigating Cuba speedboat shooting

Secretary of State Marco Rubio has said that the US is investigating an alleged shooting of four heavily armed individuals who tried to "infiltrate" Cuban territory. Cuban authorities said in a statement that the passengers were Cuban residents of the US on a Florida-registered speedboat.