Paramount debt to hit $79 billion after Warner Bros deal, no plan to sell cable assets | Reuters

Skip to main content

Exclusive news, data and analytics for financial market professionalsLearn more aboutRefinitiv

- Companies

Citigroup Inc

Follow

Netflix Inc

Follow

Paramount Skydance Corp

Follow

Show more companies

March 2 (Reuters) - The Paramount Skydance-Warner Bros Discovery merger will create a combined entity that would have a net debt of about $79 billion, Paramount (PSKY.O), opens new tab said on Monday, ruling out any plan to divest or spinoff the cable ÔÇőassets.

The companies will fold their streaming services, including Paramount+ and HBO Max, into a single platform, Paramount CEO David ÔÇîEllison said on a call with analysts.

Sign up here.

Together the companies already serve more than 200 million direct-to-consumer subscribers in more than 100 regions, Ellison said, giving them the scale and firepower to better compete in a market dominated by Netflix (NFLX.O), opens new tab.

Paramount signed the $110 billion, or $31-per-share, deal for Warner Bros early on Friday, after Netflix declined ÔÇőto raise its offer.

The acquisition is expected to save more than $6 billion in costs, with a big share coming from "non-labor sources" ÔÇőby clubbing streaming technology stacks and cloud providers of the companies, among others, Paramount strategy chief Andy ÔüáGordon said.

The savings target is much higher than Netflix's promised synergy goal of as much as $3 billion and had sparked fears of layoffsÔÇőand shrinking of TV and film production by the combined Warner-Paramount.

The merger will also unite Paramount's CBS, MTV, Comedy Central and BET with Warner's ÔÇőnetworks including CNN, TNT, and Food Network.

"By combining our linear businesses, we will expect to boost cash flow, drive efficiencies and help manage market pressures," Ellison said.

The merged entity will have one of the industry's deepest libraries of commercially proven intellectual property, uniting franchises such as "Game of Thrones", "Mission Impossible", "Harry Potter", "Top Gun", the ÔÇőDC Universe and "SpongeBob SquarePants".

"HBO is a crown jewel in this business...it will continue to have the resources and independence to do what it ÔÇődoes best at the same time," Ellison said.

The Paramount deal is backed by $54 billion in debt commitments from Bank of America, Citigroup and Apollo.

A city street stop sign is shown next to the Paramount water tower at the Paramount studio lot in Hollywood, Los Angeles, California, U.S., January 13, 2026. REUTERS/Mike Blake Purchase Licensing Rights, opens new tab

This includes $39 ÔÇîbillion of Ôüánew debt and $15 billion to refinance Warner Bros existing bridge facility, Gordon said.

Warner Bros Discovery had a net debt of $29 billion, while Paramount had $10.36 billion at the end of last year.

Paramount shares were down about 1.6%.

## THE LONG-DRAWN BIDDING CONTEST

The contest for Warner Bros' studio and streaming assets heated up over months, with Paramount and Netflix trading rival takeover bids.

Netflix struck first, signing a deal early in December to buy ÔÇőthose assets, excluding cable networks, for $27.75 ÔÇőper share, or $82.7 billion.

After Warner's Ôüáboard deemed the Paramount proposal superior, Netflix stepped back from the high-stakes battle for assets, including DC Comics, HBO and HBO Max.

The Paramount-Warner Bros deal would also remove doubts surrounding the value and risk of ÔÇőthe cable networks spinoff that Warner shareholders would have retained under the Netflix proposal, reducing one ÔÇőof the key Ôüávariables that had added to doubts around Netflix's bid.

The combined entity is expected to produce at least 30 theatrical films a year, while maintaining both Warner Bros and Paramount studios.

Paramount paid the $2.8 billion termination fee that Warner owed Netflix on Friday. The deal is expected to close in the third Ôüáquarter of ÔÇőthis year.

The acquisition is likely to easily win European Union antitrust approval, with ÔÇőany required divestments likely to be minor, Reuters reported on Friday, citing sources.

Paramount, led by David Ellison, son of billionaire Larry Ellison, has deep ties to the Trump administration, ÔÇőa factor some analysts said could help it secure more favorable regulatory treatment.