The U.S. Transportation Department said on Wednesday it has approved American Airlines' request to operate U.S. flights to Caracas and Maracaibo in Venezuela from Miami through its wholly owned regional carrier Envoy.

Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy rescinded a 2019 order in January that barred U.S. airlines from flying to Venezuela after President Donald Trump directed him to make the move.

American Airlines plans to resume services to Venezuela for the first time in more than six years. The U.S. Transportation Security Administration was in Caracas last week to review airport security procedures, sources told Reuters, a step needed to resume flights.

USDOT's order is valid for two years.

American Airlines applied to resume service to Venezuela on Feb. 13, just weeks after the Trump administration captured the country's president, Nicolás Maduro. In its filing, the airline said it wanted to resume service in part to support the administration's goals in the Caribbean.

"Approval of this application will further President Trump’s goal of reopening air service to Venezuela and serve the public interest by providing an opportunity for business, leisure, and humanitarian travel to the region," the airline's filing said. "American started operating in Venezuela in 1987 and served as the largest U.S. airline in Venezuela before the suspension of service in 2019. American, through flights operated by Envoy, looks forward to renewing that relationship and offering customers the opportunity to reunite with families and create new business and commerce with the United States."

Trump in January asked USDOT to lift restrictions that currently bar U.S. flights after a discussion with the country’s acting President Delcy Rodríguez.

The State Department added Venezuela to its “Do Not Travel” list for Americans in December and it has not removed that designation.

Military operations near Venezuela have raised serious concerns about the safety of aircraft operations in that country.