Iran says new leader vows to close Strait of Hormuz, attack U.S. bases

The war with Iran entered its 13th day Thursday, as Iran issued what it said was the first message from its new supreme leader, while attacks on commercial ships spread to Iraq's waters and oil prices climbed back above $100 a barrel.

In the statement that Iranian media attributed to Supreme Leader Mojtaba Khamenei, Iran vowed to keep the Strait of Hormuz closed and keep up attacks on U.S. bases in the region. Another person was heard reading out the remarks, with a photo of Khamenei posted on the TV screen, as the statement was broadcast around the world.

Iranian and Lebanese health officials and Israeli authorities have reported more than 1,300 people killed in Iran, 687 in Lebanon and 12 in Israel. Seven U.S. soldiers have died and eight were seriously injured, mainly after attacks at U.S. bases in countries neighboring Iran, according to the Pentagon.

The United Nations refugee agency said as many as 3.2 million Iranians have been forced out of their homes by the war.

Mojtaba Khamenei's first purported remarks as supreme leader

Iran's state media issued what it said was a message from its new supreme leader, Mojtaba Khamenei, vowing to keep the Strait of Hormuz closed and keep up attacks on U.S. bases in the region.

It was purported to be the new leader's first address to his nation since he succeeded his father, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who was killed in an Israeli strike early in the war.

But it's unclear whether the statement was from 56-year-old Mojtaba Khamenei himself. He did not appear in the broadcast. Another person was heard reading out the remarks on Iranian state media, with a photo of Khamenei posted on the TV screen, as it was broadcast around the world.

The Tasnim News Agency, run by Iran's Revolutionary Guard, published an English version of the statement, saying it was addressed to the Iranian nation.

It said Khamenei vowed to take vengeance for the blood of Iranian "martyrs," referring to the killing of the ayatollah as well as others killed since the start of the U.S.-Israeli bombing campaign. The Iranian death toll now tops 1,300, according to Iran's ambassador to the United Nations.

The address singled out an attack on a girls school toward the start of the campaign, which Iranian officials say killed at least 165 people, many of them children. NPR has confirmed that the U.S. military is investigating how it could have targeted the school.

Commenting on the narrow waterway between Iran and Oman, through which about a fifth of the world's oil is usually shipped, it said: "The lever of blocking the Strait of Hormuz must undoubtedly continue to be used."

Iran has put a virtual choke hold on the vital strait, attacking some of the commercial ships that try to move through it.

Eurasia Group President Ian Bremmer noted that the strait is not "completely closed," however. Iranian tankers "are still passing through," bringing oil to China and revenue to Iran, he wrote on social media Thursday.

The statement attributed to Khamenei also called on countries in the region to shut U.S. military bases.

"I recommend they close those bases as soon as possible because they must have understood by now that the American claim of establishing security and peace was nothing but a lie," it said.

Humanitarian toll worsens, with millions displaced by war

The U.N. refugee agency, UNHCR, said as many as 3.2 million people have been displaced in Iran since the war with the U.S. and Israel began nearly two weeks ago.

The agency said it was a preliminary assessment. "This figure is likely to continue rising as hostilities persist, marking a worrying escalation in humanitarian needs," it said.

In neighboring Lebanon, Israel has launched strikes and issued wide evacuation warnings to fight the Iran-backed Lebanese militant group Hezbollah. More than 820,000 people have been displaced, according to Lebanon's disaster management office.

The numbers fleeing their homes far outstrip adequate shelter space, with large numbers of families sleeping on Beirut's streets.

The fighting has also sent tens of thousands of Syrians and Lebanese fleeing Lebanon over to Syria, Tom Fletcher, the U.N. undersecretary-general for humanitarian affairs, said to the U.N. Security Council on Wednesday.

"Lebanon's latest humanitarian crisis is just one more consequence of a regional war that is spiraling out of control. War does not stay neatly within borders. It tears through markets, supply chains and food prices," Fletcher said.

About 6,000 Iranian targets have been hit, Central Command says

The U.S. Central Command said that as of Thursday, U.S. forces have struck about 6,000 targets in Iran since the war started, including command centers, navy ships and facilities that produce weapons.

The U.S. has also struck more than 90 Iranian vessels, including roughly 30 minelaying ships, CENTCOM said.

The U.S. has been using bombers, drones, fighter jets "and special capabilities we can't list here" in the attacks, CENTCOM said.

Two oil tankers hit in Iraqi waters

Two oil tankers were hit in Iraqi territorial waters near the southern port area of Basra, Iraqi officials said Thursday. It is the first oil-related strike reported in Iraq's waters during more than a week of war, in another sign of the conflict's escalation.

Iran, a critical ally of Iraq, took responsibility for attacking one of the tankers, which it said was owned by the U.S.

A port official said the attack targeted vessels near Basra's port approaches, and Iraq's security spokesman described it as sabotage.

Iraqi officials said one person was killed, and 38 crew members were rescued, with search operations continuing.

Iran has stepped up attacks on energy infrastructure and commercial shipping in response to U.S. and Israeli strikes, warning that the world should brace for oil prices to double.

U.S. and allies to release record oil stockpiles

The U.S. confirmed it will release 172 million barrels of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve as part of a coordinated International Energy Agency (IEA) release of 400 million barrels from emergency stockpiles.

The U.S. contribution amounts to roughly 40% of the total, to be released gradually over about four months.

The IEA's executive director, Fatih Birol, said the goal is to keep the supply of oil flowing as the conflict disrupts shipping routes and energy infrastructure. But analysts warn stockpile releases can only partially offset prolonged disruption in the Gulf, where roughly a fifth of global oil consumption normally transits the Strait of Hormuz.

On Wednesday, President Trump said the price spike is temporary and said the reserve release would push prices down.

According to the popular app Gas Buddy, the current average cost of regular unleaded is now up to $3.61 a gallon.

Iran continues attacks on Gulf States

Countries in the Gulf reported new incoming threats and interceptions Thursday, as Iran continued firing drones and missiles across the region – including at U.S. military bases.

The United Arab Emirates' Defense Ministry said air defenses were responding to Iranian missile and drone attacks, and that sounds heard in parts of the country were from intercepts.

Kuwait's Defense Ministry said its air defenses intercepted ballistic missiles and drones that penetrated the northern and southern parts of the country's airspace.

Saudi Arabia said it intercepted and destroyed drones headed toward the Shaybah oil field.

The United Nations Security Council adopted a resolution on Wednesday condemning Iran for recent attacks across the Persian Gulf region, calling them a "breach of international law" and "a serious threat to international peace and security."

Israel launches large strikes on Hezbollah sites in Beirut after rocket fire into Israel

The militant group Hezbollah launched its biggest rocket attack against Israel since the start of the war with Iran. The Israeli military said the Iranian-backed group fired heavy volleys toward northern Israel overnight into Thursday, triggering interceptions and sending residents repeatedly into shelters.

The Israeli military responded by launching more attacks against what it said were Hezbollah launch sites and command infrastructure.

Huge booms were heard across the capital and large black smoke billowed from the Dahieh neighborhood in south Beirut, while an attack in central Beirut — where thousands of people are displaced — killed eight people and injured 31, according to Lebanese officials.

Strikes hit a building in the Bashura neighborhood, just 1 kilometer (0.6 mile) from downtown Beirut. It's a busy commercial area and close to the prime minister's office.

The Israeli military did not immediately say what it was targeting in the building. The Israeli chief of staff said that the military operation in Lebanon will "not be short."

Wide evacuation warnings for south Lebanon and Beirut's southern suburbs have displaced more than 800,000 people so far, according to the Lebanese government.

Lebanon, which does not have diplomatic ties with Israel, has unusually called for direct talks with Israel to end the escalating fighting with Hezbollah. Israel has not officially responded.

Israeli strikes on Iran have continued, with Iran firing missiles at Israel intermittently.

Israeli military officials say about half of the missiles Iran has launched at Israel have carried cluster warheads, which spread out into smaller bombs over a wider area — increasing the risk to civilians.

Pentagon's preliminary assessment suggests U.S. responsible for strike on Iranian school

The Pentagon has opened a formal investigation into the missile strike on an Iranian girls school that killed at least 165 civilians, many of them children, after a preliminary assessment suggested the U.S. was at fault, according to a U.S. official who was not authorized to speak publicly. The investigation is expected to take months and will include interviews with all those involved, from planners and commanders to those who carried out the strike.

If a U.S. role in the attack is confirmed, it would rank among the military's deadliest incidents involving civilians in decades. Congress created a special Pentagon office to prevent the accidental targeting of civilians but it was dramatically scaled back by Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth soon after he took office last year.

"This investigation is ongoing. As we have said, unlike the terrorist Iranian regime, the United States does not target civilians," said White House spokesperson Anna Kelly.

The Pentagon did not respond to a request for comment.

NPR previously reported— based on commercial satellite imagery and independent expert analysis — that the strike was more extensive than initially reported and appeared consistent with a precision strike on a nearby military complex, raising questions about whether outdated targeting information contributed to the tragedy.

Iran-backed militias in Iraq are hit by airstrikes

Iran-backed militias in Iraq came under the biggest attacks since the war started. Airstrikes on two bases killed at least nine people and wounded 10 others, according to the militias.

The Iranian-backed paramilitaries are part of Iraqi armed forces but not entirely under their control. The militias said the bases were targeted by U.S. airstrikes. The U.S. has not commented on the attacks.

One of the armed groups is affiliated with the political party of former Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki, who is backed by Iran. The U.S. has warned of repercussions if Maliki is reappointed prime minister.

The Iranian-backed militias have been attacking U.S. bases and other targets in Iraq since Iran began retaliating against U.S. and Israeli strikes more than a week ago.

A U.S. refueling aircraft crashed in western Iraq "in friendly airspace," the U.S. Central Command said in a statement Thursday. Another aircraft was involved, but landed safely, CENTCOM said.

"This was not due to hostile fire or friendly fire," CENTCOM said.

CENTCOM did not say if there are any casualties, but that rescue efforts were underway.