USA TODAY - Breaking News and Latest News Today

Exclusive: Trump eyes Cuba economic deal after Venezuela strike

Country Joe McDonald, Woodstock festival legend, dead at 84

Kristi Noem's firing mocked in 'SNL' cold open

Iran names Mojtaba Khamenei as supreme leader

College basketball coaches fired: Updated list of schools making changes

Does wearing a hat make you bald? Here are the root causes

As thrifting trends on social media, stores feel the culture shifting

Featured Videos

For You

Which topics matter most to you? Add your favorites and you’ll see more of these stories in the For You section. View For You

More Top Stories

Why some Americans lie about being American when…

Cuba 'at the end of the line,' Trump warns at summit…

Kansas City airport cleared after 'potential threat'…

Bill Maher describes texts with Trump after White House…

The Oscars' worst best picture winners, ranked

Big Ten basketball tournament bracket update: Who plays…

Trump: Iran bombed girls' school. 'They have no accuracy…

Surprise! Harry Styles crashes Ryan Gosling's 'SNL'…

Trump receives remains of six Americans killed in Iran…

Lady Gaga reveals update on her wedding with fiancé…

One of these movies is what you should watch tonight

Disney+ and Hulu bundles are under $5 a month for 3…

Discover

Introducing USA TODAY Women of the Year 2026 Dignified transfer brings fallen soldiers from Kuwait… Worms in your McDonald's Filet-O-Fish? A gross but…

Has anyone declined an Oscar award? The surprising answer

Shopping

Spring forward with $9 nighttime gummies for kids Disney+ and Hulu bundles are under $5 a month for 3 months Why family-friendly vacations at Great Wolf Lodge are easy Eric Clapton reveals 6 U.S. dates on 2026 world tour, get…

Sports

How gymnast's tragic story underscores risks of girls… Winners and losers from women's Power 4 conference… Inside Tarik Skubal's difficult WBC dilemma Women’s college basketball bracketology: Texas moves up…

Entertainment

Woman arrested after shooting at Rihanna, A$AP Rocky's… Steve Carell crows about 'way funnier' wife Nancy’s… Revisit Country Joe McDonald's career in photos The 10 best Oscar speeches of all time – See our ranking

Politics

Who is Mojtaba Khamenei? What we know about Iran's… 'Improvised explosive device' ignited near Gracie Mansion… Seventh American service member dies in Iran war… Exclusive: Trump eyes Cuba economic deal after Venezuela…

Pets

The cruise ship that lets dogs cross the Atlantic with you Tips for a smooth road trip with a cat Treat your pup to fresh, vet-approved food with 50% off… Are pets good for kids? The answer might surprise you.

News in Pictures

World Baseball Classic displays celebration of global… 2026 PGA Tour tournament winners Baseball spring training: Sunshine, good vibes in Arizona… Throw it down! Best dunk photos of the 2025-26 NBA season

Trending Video

See 8-year-old’s heartfelt reaction to breaking taekwondo… Are you replacing these household staples regularly? Watch as dog sees owner again after 6 weeks lost in the… An easy way to cut open a pomegranate

Money

As thrifting trends on social media, stores feel the… See this 1949 Jeep reimagined as a fire-shooting rat rod Don’t miss this Medicare deadline or you could pay more Why inheritances are generating more bad blood and legal…

Real Estate

Find your dream home — start your search today Need an agent who listens? These pros get it. Get a real home value — not just a guess Are the lights on your neighbor's home too bright? Here's…

Wellness

Does wearing a hat make you bald? Here are the root causes Why lentils are one of the healthiest foods you can eat Tossing the salmon skin? You're missing out on these key… Why we still observe daylight saving time – despite…

Just Curious

Does wearing a hat make you bald? Here are the root causes Why lentils are one of the healthiest foods you can eat Tossing the salmon skin? You're missing out on these key… Why chocolate makes you feel so good

Opinion

New Styles album is pretty OK all the time, good… Will Trump help rebuild Iran after war? Don't count on it. Congress gets one more chance to derail Bondi's cover-up Vance's lies made me realize I was on the wrong side

Travel

Dollywood's $50M NightFlight ride will be its biggest ever Why some Americans lie about being American when traveling 7 ultra-luxe all-inclusive resorts perfect for couples Book summer flights now before fares rise, airfare…

Investigations

They went to jail for minor crimes. Sepsis was a death… Cash vanished from charity raffles at NHL, NBA games A $2B NHL team seized control of youth hockey. Parents… Top Trump officials' stock sales clustered before tariff…

U.S. News

'Improvised explosive device' ignited near Gracie Mansion… Kansas City airport cleared after 'potential threat'… Michigan tornado victims identified, including… Experts fear they underestimated this deadly climate…

USA TODAY 10BEST

Disney+ and Hulu are running a rare $5 deal right now Sleep Week is here — and mattress prices are shockingly… Shower filters are going viral — but do they actually… This is the pillow Taylor Swift sleeps on (and it's on…

Tech

A couples therapist was too expensive. They used AI to… Amazon outage: Users report problems with website Is Apple’s MacBook Neo the budget Mac you’ve been waiting… Google sued after man’s death linked to Gemini chatbot

Who is Mojtaba Khamenei? What we know about Iran's supreme leader A sheriff clings to power after a man froze to death in his jail 'Improvised explosive device' ignited near Gracie Mansion, NYPD says Why inheritances are generating more bad blood and legal fees Explosion at US embassy in Oslo may have been deliberate attack He did it again. Jeremy Fears Jr. kicks another opponent in the groin How gymnast's tragic story underscores risks of girls getting hurt The real reason sunlight is increasing (it's not daylight saving time)