John Healey warns Iran is ‘lashing out’ as missiles fire at Cyprus

Tehran has launched a tirade of attacks across the Middle East in retaliation at US-Israeli strikes

Larisa Brown

, Defence Editor

Sunday March 01 2026, 12.20pm, The Times

An Iranian missile seen in the skies over Hebron in the West Bank on Saturday

WISAM HASHLAMOUN/ANADOLU/GETTY IMAGES

Larisa Brown

, Defence Editor

Sunday March 01 2026, 12.20pm, The Times

The British defence secretary has accused the Iranian regime of “lashing out” after two missiles were fired in the direction of Cyprus and UK troops took out a drone in Iraq.

Iran launched ballistic missiles and drones in more than 25 waves against targets in Israel, Bahrain, Qatar, the UAE, Kuwait, and Iraq after Israel and the US struck Tehran on Saturday morning, according to UK assessments.

Two Iranian missiles were fired in the direction of Cyprus, which is home to RAF Akrotiri and hundreds of troops, as well as Typhoons and F-35s.

The UK does not believe the missiles were aimed at Cyprus, but the attacks demonstrate how quickly the situation could escalate. Troops are ready to withdraw from bases across the region or disperse if necessary, it is understood.

John Healey said: “This regime is lashing out. It’s lashing out in an increasingly indiscriminate and widespread way and people will be really concerned that it’s not just military targets, but civilian airports like Kuwait.

“Hotels in Dubai and Bahrain are being hit. And so that’s why we’ve strengthened the UK defences in the region. We are active in regional defence operations.”

A yacht sails past a plume of smoke rising from the port of Jebel Ali, in Dubai

FADEL SENNA/AFP/GETTY IMAGES

On Saturday, British troops based at a US base in Bahrain were within 200 metres of the Iranian missile and drone strike. About 300 British personnel are based there.

British forces in Iraq, deployed there as part of the longstanding counter-Daesh operation, were within 400m of an Iranian missile strike. A British counter-drone unit took out an Iranian drone that was heading towards a coalition base housing UK service personnel.

RAF jets, including Typhoons and F-35s in Cyprus and Typhoons in Qatar, continue to fly in the region for defensive purposes.

As of Sunday morning, all UK military personnel in the region were safe and accounted for. Force protection measures are at their highest level for all forces in the region and kept under constant review.

Healey told Sky News: “Few people will mourn the ayatollah’s death, not least the family and friends of those thousands of young protesters murdered on the streets of Iranian cities.

“ Iran and the regime he’s led for so long, is a source of evil, murdering its own citizens, and sponsoring and exporting terror, including to countries like Britain.”

John Healey at RAF Akrotiri in 2024

YUI MOK/PA

Healey repeated the government’s insistence that British forces were involved in purely “defensive” operations, with warplanes operating from Qatar and Britain’s airbase in Cyprus.

He declined to comment on reports that London had denied the United States access to British bases worldwide to conduct its attacks on Iran and would not be drawn on the legality of the US-Israeli strikes.

“It is for the US to set out the legal basis of the action,” he told the BBC. “Britain played no part in the strikes on Iran. We share, however, the primary aim of all allies in the region and the US that Iran should never have a nuclear weapon.”

Healey with Dame Priti Patel and Zack Polanski

JEFF OVER/BBC/REUTERS

Healey noted that about 300 UK armed forces personnel had been “within several hundred yards” of drones and missiles that Iran fired at a US military base in Bahrain, while two ballistic missiles had been “fired in the direction of Cyprus” on Saturday.

“It demonstrates how our bases, our personnel, military and civilians at the moment are at risk with a regime that is increasingly indiscriminate, widespread and uncontrolled in the attacks it’s mounting,” he said.