# Day 14 of Middle East conflict — Trump says US ‘totally obliterated every military target’ at Iran oil hub

Updated 12:10 AM EDT, Sat March 14, 2026

• Critical island hit: President Donald Trump said Friday night the US “totally obliterated every military target” on Kharg Island, which handles roughly 90% of Iran’s crude exports. He threatened to attack the oil infrastructure if Tehran continues blocking ships from traversing the Strait of Hormuz.

• Iran’s threat: Tehran warned it would hit regional oil facilities if its own energy infrastructure was attacked, reported state media. It also reported that no oil infrastructure on Kharg Island was damaged.

• Escorts on the strait: Trump also said he believes US Navy escorts for tankers through the Strait of Hormuz will happen “soon.” Separately, a senior Iranian official told CNN that Tehran is considering allowing some vessels to pass through, provided the cargo is traded in Chinese yuan.

• Marines to region: US officials also told CNN that the Pentagon is deploying a Marine Expeditionary Unit to the Middle East, a rapid response unit.

The US Department of State on Friday ordered non-emergency American government employees and their families to leave Oman due to safety risks.

Travelers were told to “reconsider travel to Oman due to risk of armed conflict and terrorism” under a level 3 alert.

A level 4 alert, or “do not travel” advisory, is in place for Oman’s border region with Yemen.

Iran’s state-affiliated Fars News Agency said no oil infrastructure was damaged in the US strikes on Kharg Island.

More than 15 explosions were reported on the island, with thick smoke rising after the US targeted army defenses, the Joshen Sea Base, an airport control tower and a helicopter hangar, according to field sources cited by the agency.

US President Donald Trump said Friday night that the US bombed “every military target” on Kharg, a small island which handles roughly 90% of Iran’s crude exports.

Video posted by President Trump on Truth Social on Friday night and geolocated by CNN showed US strikes on Kharg Island, Iran. @realDonaldTrump/Truth Social

Video posted to Truth Social by President Donald Trump and geolocated by CNN shows US strikes on Kharg Island, including hits on airport facilities.

Large explosions and black smoke are visible throughout the footage, which CNN geolocated by matching frames against satellite imagery.

Iran has said any attack on its oil and energy infrastructure will lead to retaliatory strikes on facilities in the region owned by oil companies that have American shares or cooperate with the United States, state media reported, citing Tehran’s Khatam al-Anbiya military command headquarters.

The statement on Saturday morning local time came after President Donald Trump announced the US had struck military targets on Iran’s Kharg Island, which handles the majority of its crude exports.

He also threatened to attack the island’s oil infrastructure if Iran continues blocking ships from traversing the Strait of Hormuz.

The United States’ strike on Iran’s Kharg Island, a critical crude export terminal, has escalated the stakes in the war and could ultimately send oil prices “out of control,” a retired army official told CNN.

“It means that we have raised the stakes in this war considerably. It’s gone simply from a ‘take out the military, take out the regime’ but now we’re trying to take out the economic lifeblood of this country, potentially,” former US Army brigadier general Mark Kimmitt said.

Kimmitt said the US is holding the island “hostage” to ensure that Iran allows ships through the Strait of Hormuz, whose closure has already sent crude oil prices soaring.

However, if that oil infrastructure is targeted, Kimmitt said “it is clear that Iran is going to attack the rest of the infrastructure in the Middle East.”

“And at that point, the prices of oil will just go out of control,” he added.

Satellite image shows Iran's Kharg Island on March 11, prior to US strikes on the island.

Airbus

Kharg Island is a five-mile stretch of land off the Iranian coast that handles roughly 90% of the country’s crude exports. It had seemingly been left untouched during the first two weeks of the war with Iran.

President Donald Trump said Friday night the US “totally obliterated every military target” on Kharg Island and threatened to attack the island’s oil infrastructure if Iran continues blocking ships from traversing the Strait of Hormuz.

Iranian ⁠Parliament Speaker Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf had earlier warned that the country would “abandon all restraint” if there is any US aggression against Iranian islands across the Persian Gulf.

This post has been updated with additional information.

President Donald Trump on Friday said the US and Israeli objectives in Iran “might be a little different,” as the US-Israel war with Iran enters its third week.

“Well, I think they might be a little different, I guess, they’re a different country than we are. But he will tell you there’s never been a power like the power of the United States,” Trump told reporters before boarding Air Force One.

Asked by reporters if he speaks with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu daily, the president replied, “I speak to him a lot.”

Trump’s comments come as Israel says it continues to strike Iran into Friday night local time, with reported targets including Iranian security checkpoints in Tehran, government buildings and military weapon storage sites.

President Donald Trump told reporters tonight that he believes US Navy escorts for oil tankers through the critical Strait of Hormuz will happen “soon.”

“It’ll happen soon,” the president said when asked.

The president added, “Today, we’ve had some very, very big hits.”

Asked how long he believes the war with Iran will last, the president told reporters, “It’ll be as long as it’s necessary.”

The president also told reporters he has talked to Chinese leader Xi Jinping about the war — as Trump is expected to head to China later this month.

Pure economic warfare" being waged in Strait of Hormuz

Israel says it continues to strike Iran into Friday night local time as the war’s death toll rises.

US-Israeli strikes on Iran have killed at least 1,300 people, the Iranian ambassador to the United Nations said Wednesday. Over 2,000 people — including civilians and military personnel — have been killed in the region so far, according to CNN estimates.

Here are more of today’s headlines:

Iran mulls over strait traffic: Iran is considering allowing a limited number of oil tankers to pass through the Strait of Hormuz, as long as the oil cargo is traded in Chinese yuan, a senior Iranian official tells CNN.

$10 million reward: The US government is offering a reward of up to $10 million for information on key Iranian leaders, including the new Supreme Leader Mojtaba Khamenei.

Oil prices reach higher: Global oil prices settled at the highest level today since July 2022 as anxiety about the effective closure of the Strait of Hormuz continued across global markets.

Family torn apart: An Israeli strike killed nine family members, including five children, in south Lebanon. CNN’s Isobel Yeung visited the site of destruction:

Strike in Southern Lebanon kills five children

CNN's Isobel Yeung visited the site of a strike on a yoghurt factory in Irkay, Southern Lebanon. The area was struck overnight by Israel, who issued an evacuation order Thursday night. The IDF say they were targeting Hezbollah infrastructure. Nine people were killed in the strike, including 5 children.

US sends more personnel: The Pentagon is deploying a rapid response unit typically comprised of around 2,500 Marines and sailors, three officials familiar with the matter told CNN.

Trilateral talks: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said the US sought to postpone the next round of trilateral talks aiming to end Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, citing the war in the Middle East.

Israeli strikes spike pollution: CNN found Israeli strikes at fuel facilities across Tehran last weekend spiked pollution levels, ignited fires and caused oil spills, which raised questions and sparked criticism by environmental experts and health officials.

Vance in North Carolina: Vice President JD Vance dodged a question during a speech about what he said to President Donald Trump about the Iran war, citing confidentiality and implying he could go to prison if he discussed it. He also told reporters Khamenei is “hurt,” but it’s unclear if the United States is responsible.

Top Iranian officials including the country’s president and judiciary chief attended a rally in Tehran on Friday, near which military strikes took place.

Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian, Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi, Supreme National Security Council Secretary Ali Larijani, Iran’s police chief Ahmad-Reza Radan and senior cleric Ayatollah Alireza Arafi were all in attendance.

Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi (C) participates in an annual state-organized rally in support of Palestinians in Tehran on Friday.

Vice President JD Vance dodged a question today about what he’s said to President Donald Trump about the Iran war, saying conversations about the strike were classified and implying he could go to prison if he discussed them.

Asked what he initially advised Trump as the president weighed military options in Iran, Vance replied that those discussions occurred in a classified space and he would not reveal them to the public.

“I hate to disappoint you, but I’m not going to show up here and in front of God and everybody else tell you exactly what I said in that classified room, partially because I don’t want to go to prison, and partially because I think it’s important for the president of the United States to be able to talk to his advisers without those advisers running their mouth to the American media,” Vance said during a speech on affordability at Rocky Mount, North Carolina.

Notably, Trump didn’t seem to have any issue with saying that his vice president expressed reservations about the war, telling reporters on Monday: “He was, I would say, philosophically a little bit different than me. I think he was maybe less enthusiastic about going, but he was quite enthusiastic. But I felt it was something we had to do.” At the same time, Trump said that they “get along very well” on the issue.

CNN has previously reported that Vance was initially skeptical of the strikes. But when it became apparent that Trump intended to move forward, he advocated for Trump to attack quickly and decisively.

Iran is considering allowing a limited number of oil tankers to pass through the Strait of Hormuz, provided that the oil cargo is traded in Chinese yuan, a senior Iranian official tells CNN.

The potential move comes as the Islamic Republic is working on a new plan to manage the flow of oil tankers through the Strait, the source added.

International oil is almost entirely traded in dollars, apart from sanctioned Russian oil, which is traded in roubles or yuan.

China has attempted to make inroads for the past several years to buy oil in yuan, particularly in Saudi Arabia. But the dollar remains the world’s reserve currency, and the yuan is not broadly accepted on the global marketplace.

Market anxieties about the strait - a significant artery for the world’s energy - have pushed oil prices to their highest point since July 2022, the summer after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

The United Nations warned on Friday that restrictions on the flow of ships through the strait will have an “immense impact” on humanitarian efforts as the war continues.

Oil prices moved slightly higher Friday as anxiety about the effective closure of the Strait of Hormuz continued to be the premier focus for global markets.

Brent crude, the international oil benchmark, rose 2.67% Friday to settle at $103.14 per barrel, its highest level since July 2022. US crude oil rose 3.11% to settle at $98.71 per barrel, also its highest level since July 2022.

Oil prices have climbed as nerves about the Strait of Hormuz have outweighed efforts by the International Energy Agency and the United States to ease price concerns.

The IEA on Wednesday agreed to a historic release of oil reserves, and the United States on Thursday issued a temporary waiver for countries to buy sanctioned Russian oil.

Nonetheless, Brent and US crude gained 11.3% and 8.6%, respectively, this week, building on enormous gains from the week prior.

All told, Brent is up 41.5% since the war began. US crude oil has surged 47%.